News - Date: 01 November 2019 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 1738 Thulamela Municipality is in mourning after the passing away of one of its dedicated councillors, Maria Vhengani Ramaṋala of Maniini village near Thohoyandou. Cllr Ramaṋala (57), the ward 41 councillor, died peacefully in her house on Thursday, 24 October, after a long illness. The mayor of Thulamela, Cllr Avhashoni Tshifhango, said Cllr Ramaṋala had been a dedicated and hardworking councillor. “It will be difficult for the municipality and community at large to forget her dedication in helping and resolving disputes in her ward,” said Tshifhango. The spokesperson for the Thulamela municipality, Nndwamato Tshiila, said Cllr Ramaṋala had been born and raised at Sinthumule, at Ha-Ravele village. “She was a selfless person who knew that community development requires involvement of all of us and she participated in various community-based structures, such as the Maniini Block K Civic Association, Kuḓiḓe old-aged home, Block K Community Policing Forum and the neighbourhood watch. Community building was her priority. Many orphans were helped by her donating food and uniforms to needy families. She knocked on many business doors, approaching donors to assist in her calling to support the needy and to make sure that there were no children who couldn’t go to school because of no uniforms nor to sleep without eating,” said Tshiila. Before becoming a ward councillor, Ramaṋala worked for the Thulamela Municipality. She was also a member of the SA Homeless People Federation, founded by Cde Maria Mamedzi in 1998. Tshiila said that Ramaṋala had cut her political teeth at an early age when it had not been fashionable to do so and when doing so had been risky. She participated in various political structures and occupied positions of leadership. Among others she served as a regional executive committee member of the ANCWL’s Vhembe Region between 2006 and 2008. She was a member of the Luluḓi ANC Branch until it was divided into four branches (Nanḓoni, Mutsindo, Vuledzani Buḽaḽa and Mvuḓi). In 2005, she was part of the first leadership of the newly formed Vuledzani Buḽaḽa Branch. She also assisted in the establishment of the ANCWL in the branch and was elected the chairperson of the ANCWL. She will be buried on Saturday (tomorrow), with the funeral ceremony starting at Maniini Block K at 6: 30, from where it will move to Ha-Ravele in Sinthumule here she will be buried.  The late Cllr Vhengani Ramaṋala.  Email: