News - Date: 04 November 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 1300 A passionate teacher from Magangeni Primary School in Malamulele, Florence Bekwa, won an excellence award during the 20th annual teaching-award ceremony held at the Ranch Hotel near Polokwane. Those who know Bekwa were not surprised when she was announced as winner in her category. Speaking to Limpopo Mirror, Bekwa said that she was excited about the accolade. “It is a dream come true to scoop this award, and I dedicate this award to my learners. I would like to thank God, my learners and colleagues who are always supportive and make my job easy. I want to develop our community by producing the best learners who will be the doctors, lawyers and engineers of tomorrow,” Bekwa said. Magangeni Primary School’s principal, Mr Lucky Mashamba, was very excited about his teacher’s achievements. “We feel very excited about her winning, because it puts our school in the limelight. Ours is the only school in the Vhembe East district circuit with a teacher who will represent us at national level. It is really a milestone for our school.” Mashamba encouraged other educators to participate in the national teaching awards. “All the schools must participate in the national teaching awards because, as an educator, you don’t know how much you are worth until you are measured against other educators. We have the best educators, but they are not participating,” Mashamba said.  Florence Bekwa, photographed with Kuhumelela Maluleke after winning an award for excellence in the primary-school teaching category. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: