News - Date: 01 November 2019 Written by: Bernard Chiguvare / Viewed: 834 A large group of ANC supporters gathered at the Beit Bridge border post last Friday to call for the lifting of international sanctions against Zimbabwe. The march at the country’s northern border followed the SADC summit, where various heads of state spoke out against the negative effect that the prolonged sanctions have had on Zimbabwe. During the summit a decision was made to declare 25 October as a date on which SADC member states could collectively voice their disapproval of the sanctions through various activities and on a variety of platforms. The US government and the European Union imposed sanctions against Zimbabwe in 2001, after the southern African country went on a land-reform programme that led to most farmers’ losing their land. In Zimbabwe the ruling party, ZANU PF, called on supporters in different provinces to stage marches calling for the lifting of sanctions. President Emmerson Munangagwa’s administration also declared 25 October a holiday. “An injury to one is an injury to all,” said the ANC’s general secretary, Ace Magashule, when addressing the gathering a stone’s throw away from the South African border. Magashule said South Africa could not relax when its long-time friend was in trouble. He called on the Western community to lift sanctions against Zimbabwe and to join the progressive efforts to help rebuild the country’s economy. Receiving the memorandum, Chengetai Mudawa from the Zimbabwean Embassy in South Africa thanked South Africa for its fearless stance in supporting Zimbabwe. Magashule was joined by the ZANU PF secretary for administration, Dr Obert Mpofu, some Zimbabwean members of parliament and some ZANU PF supporters. The protestors were very vociferous in their condemnation of sanctions. “I came all the way from the Collins Chabane municipality to show solidarity with Zimbabweans. These sanctions should be lifted,” said Thomas Maswanganye, one of the protestors interviewed. Bonizi Manwere, a Zimbabwean staying in Beit Bridge, said, “The Western countries are trying to dictate how countries should be governed. That is not what we actually need. Those sanctions are affecting us daily. They should be lifted.” “I don't support this march. The whole Zimbabwean leadership from the ruling party should be dissolved. They are the ones making us suffer,” said one Zimbabwean who did not want her name to be published. For almost an hour no traffic flowed in or out of the South African border as the ANC and ZANU PF supporters gathered at the entrance gate. Some supporters were ferried to the Dulibadzimu stadium in Beit Bridge, Zimbabwe, where they picketed for almost two hours.  ANC and ZANU PF supporters display placards at the border post. ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule (left) and Dr Obert Mpofu, the ZANU PF secretary for administration.  Bernard Chiguvare is a Zimbabwean-born journalist. He writes mainly for the online publication, Groundup.  Email: bernchiguvare@gmail.com