News - Date: 09 November 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 512 The Vhembe ANC region has opted to remove the controversial Chief Whip of the Collins Chabane Municipality from his position. Cllr Miyelani Chauke was apparently removed on Wednesday to restore the gender balance in the council’s senior executive, but many believe the move may be about the alleged “sex-tape” scandal or perhaps political hustling for positions. A week or so ago, the 17-second clip started doing the rounds, allegedly depicting Chauke having intercourse with a young woman. Chauke has vehemently denied that he is the person in the video, pointing out that he has distinguishable scars on his body, which the person in the video clearly does not have. Chauke also laid charges of crimen injuria at the Malamulele police station last week. He believes that this forms part of a smear campaign against him, which is timed to be ahead of the upcoming elective conference in the party’s Vhembe region. The ANC’s regional executive committee (REC) recommended that Chauke be axed this week. The Vhembe ANC region secretary, Adv Anderson Mudunungu, said that they had to consider the issue of gender representation. At the local municipality, the senior leadership is male dominated. During the REC meeting, the resolution was taken that the position of Chief Whip should be filled by a female councillor. Mudunungu said that the decision was influenced by the sacking of mayors in June this year, following the VBS saga, which caused an imbalance. He said that the mayor of the Collins Chabane Municipality was a male and so was the Speaker. “As the ANC we have to appoint a female in the position (of Chief Whip) to balance the gender,” he said. “The REC, in its wisdom, took the decision to allow the council to approve the recommendation to reshuffle or relieve the Chief Whip with the intention of bringing stability to the municipality,” he said. He concluded by saying that they were going to appoint the new Chief Whip in the municipality before the end of the week. Cllr Miyelani Chauke was not available for comment.   Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za