News - Date: 08 November 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 443 A 14-year-old boy was killed and six children injured when a mentally disturbed uncle of theirs attacked them with a panga. The incident happened last Tuesday (29 October) at Nghezimani in the Malamulele area. The children were apparently attacked while they were watching television. According to the police, the man was allegedly upset about being given “rotten meat”. Nyenedzo Ramarumo, a Grade 8 pupil at Dlamani High, died as a result of the injuries sustained in the attack. The six injured children were identified as: Nyiko Makhubele (4), Sithole Vunwe (13), Vusi Novela (15), Makungu Mboweni (14), Akiso Makhubele (14) and Messiah Makhubele (10). The mother of the boy, Ms Rofhiwa Rammbuda, was still in a state of shock when speaking to Limpopo Mirror. “As a mother I never expected my child to die like this.” She confirmed that the suspect is known to be a mentally ill person. Rammbuda said that the suspect had a long history of being violent. “He previously chopped his wife's leg with a panga,” she said. She said that he started attacking the children while they were in the house watching television. Some of the children managed to escape by jumping out of a window. The injured children were rushed to the nearby clinic, but Nyenedzo died on the arrival. A community leader, Mr Dickson Mafanele, said the death had left the community devastated. “As leaders, we are very concerned about the death of defenseless people. We feel that the community has to stand up and join the police in the fight against crime. We cannot just sit down and watch while our people are being killed,” he said. Mafanele called for unity and an intensification of the fight against crime by the community, in conjunction with the police. Police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said the suspect was facing six counts of attempted murder and one of murder. The suspect, the 43-year-old Shadrack Makhubele, appeared in the Saselemane Magistrate's Court last Wednesday on a charge of murder and six cases of attempted murder. His case was postponed to 28 November. Nyendedzo was buried on Saturday at Tshixwadza in the Rammbuda area. The six other children are recovering from their wounds.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za