News - Date: 03 November 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 917 Ten dynamic Limpopo women from different institutions were given awards by Women of Destiny South Africa (WODSA) during a special 10th anniversary celebration function held at Kone Village at Ha-Ramantsha on Saturday night. Ms Naledi Senye, the founder of WODSA, said that women would continue to be the subject of ridicule and be exposed to poverty and abuse if they did not change their mindset. “It is all in the mind - your destiny, failures and achievements are all what you think, and you can decide to break free from the web of abuse and dependency,” she said. “God brought you here for a purpose. You are the light of the world, and you could make a big difference in the community by just living exemplary lives. Many people would be lured to God’s fold by just looking at you,” she said. Senye added that women were failing today and became entangled in a web of poverty and abuse because they were not independent and could not provide for themselves and their families. “God did not bring you into this world to be beggars but to be independent people with economic freedom. That would deliver you from abuse and exploitation and this can only be achieved if women are united,” said Senye. The guest speaker, Dr Dephney Mathebula, urged the recipients not to look down upon themselves but rather to see themselves as professional people in the community. “To the people who were honoured here today, we say that this is a launching pad for your careers.” She also criticised women who frequent taverns and pubs, even though they have no money to procure beverages for themselves. Mathebula encouraged women to start self-sustainable projects such as home gardens, which she said could be a source of food for their families and also provide an extra income. She issued a strong warning to community members who abuse women and children. “Any form of women and child abuse should immediately be reported to the police or community leaders. Women abusers have no room in our community.” One of the recipients of an award, the well-known pastor Violet Liremi, said the award would motivate her to work even harder in developing women. “I am so excited. I have (received) other awards, but this one is very special in that it is from a very distinguished institution like WODSA,” she said. She urged local women to start doing things for themselves. “Women should stand up and do things that will change their lives. Gone are the days when women used to depend on men. It’s time to stand up for ourselves and change our lives for the better,” said Liremi. The women who received awards are: Irene Mawela (best known for her 80s hits mme anga khotsi anga and vhana vhashu), Latani Violet Liremi (radio presenter and pastor who is a spiritual leader, caring mother, life coach and also a community leader), Noria Mabasa (an internationally acclaimed sculptor and potter), Beka Ntsanwisi (the founder of the football club for the elderly, Vakhegula-Vakhegula), Dr Dephney Mathebula (the first South African woman to obtain a PhD in Mathematics), Mankoko Mokhari (Mankoko Baby of Thobela FM’s breakfast show Ditla le meso), Dr Khensani Selina Maluleke (founder of Solomon’s Porch Worship Tabernacle Ministries), Veteran singer Priscillah Mabelane (CEO of BP Southern Africa), Tumelo Queen Seakamela (a qualified social worker, but she has never practiced her profession in any institution; instead, she chose to uplift her community of Marobjane in Senwabarwana in social matters), and Mary Mohloding (a torchbearer for her community and advisor to Kgoshi Seakamela wa Bobedi). Naledi Senye hands over an award to veteran singer Dr Irene Mawela. The well-known pastor Violet Liremi (right) receives her award from Naledi Senye.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za