News - Date: 28 November 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 4428 Vhakoma Vho-Masindi Mphephu Ravele, wife of the former president of the Venda homeland, Frank Ravele, died at her house last Thursday. She was buried at Tshiendeulu Barota, Levubu, on Wednesday. The family spokesperson, Mr Cedrick Ravele, described Mrs Ravele as “an angel who brought up her children with love and affection. We wipe our tears, because we know that she served the Lord every minute of her life.” He said that the death of the beloved gogo had left a big void in the family. “She was everything to us and she was our main source of inspiration,” he said. He said she was a visionary and a good leader who loved all people without discriminating or taking sides. “For me she was like a friend and not a granny, because we shared ideas,” he added. He described her as a pioneer, a born leader and a woman of vision. He said the hearts of the whole community and traditional council were heavy because Masindi had been influential in the church and community. “We will always remember her for her hard work, commitment and dedication,” he said. “Most of the development that occurred during her time was because of her ideas. We have lost a charismatic, disciplined and enthusiastic leader,” he said. He urged all to follow the good example set by Masindi. “She had a vision to complete the house of God. I urge all of you, especially the children, to complete the project in order that her soul will rest in peace,” he said. “She was one of the veterans in the family and it becomes very painful when we lose icons like her.”  The late Masindi Mphephu Ravele.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za