News - Date: 10 November 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1272 The home of an emerging businesswoman from Matanda Extension 2 in Nzhelele was extensively damaged in a fire a fortnight ago. Two rooms and a double garage of the home belonging to Ms Catherine Ramadwa was destroyed in the fire. The cause of the fire is still unknown, and the police are investigating. The fire also destroyed material meant for recycling, including glass bottles, cardboard boxes and plastic. Ramadwa operates a small recycling company from her yard. The fire broke out at about 20:00. Many members of the community from Tshirolwe and neighbouring villages gave their all in trying to extinguish the flames, but the fire was too strong. The fire consumed the whole building before firefighters could arrive. Ramadwa said that she was visiting her mother at Biaba when she received a call at around 20:30. “I rushed home and found that the whole house was on fire. Police and firefighters arrived a short while later, but the fire consumed the whole building, including all the stock.” According to eyewitnesses, they only saw the house burning, but did not know where the fire was coming from. No one was in the house during the incident. “I felt like I was dreaming while I watched helplessly,” Ramadwa said. “I am now appealing to any good Samaritan to come and assist me. What I want is to have a roof over my head.” Ramadwa estimates the damage at approximately R300 000. She added that the fridge, kitchen unit, beds, TV, money, clothes, food and furniture had been destroyed by the fire. Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the incident and said that they had opened an arson case.  Catherine Ramadwa and her son,Tanganedzani Ramadwa. Photo supplied.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za