News - Date: 25 November 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 835 “It hurts and it is embarrassing when you are menstruating and you can't afford sanitary pads,” said Ms Mercy Nemavhola, the founder of Stop The Spot Youth organisation. Her organisation aims to support less fortunate girls by providing them with free sanitary pads. According to Nemavhola, some girls miss school days every month because they cannot afford sanitary pads. “Poverty is not a choice. Nothing hurts more than being poor to the extent that you can't even get R10 to buy the cheapest sanitary pads. Most girls end up dating sugar daddies in order to have a better living,” she said. “Many young girls come from poor families and their parents can't afford to buy pads for them. Some rely on old clothes. They tear them up and use them as a pad, which is wrong because she might get infections,” she added. The 23-year-old from Tshipako Muramba Village said that the non-profit organisation was started last year. “We want to stop each and every spot that hinders the youth of South Africa from becoming better versions of themselves through motivational talks, modelling, youth talk seminars, acting dramas, writing books, playing soccer, and donating items such as clothes, toiletries, graduation attire, matric-dance attire, stationery, sanitary pads and food to destitute families,” she said. She is currently studying for an honours degree in guidance and counselling at the University of Venda. “I propose that the government provide pads for poor people. Sanitary pads are very important. We need them more than we need condoms. Ladies and gentlemen, let’s donate sanitary pads to better someone’s life out there,” she said. For donations she can be contacted at 082-3432960 or write to Stopthespot2018@gmail.com.  The founder of Stop The Spot Youth organisation, Mercy Nemavhola. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: