News - Date: 03 June 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 232 The University of Venda celebrated Africa Day at the university’s Freedom Square last Friday. The theme of the celebrations was Towards durable solutions to forced displacements.

The head of the field office at the United Nations Human Rights Council, Mr Rey Chikwanda, said that the launch of the African Union in 2002 was testimony of the unity in Africa. According to him, Africa is home to approximately one third of global refugees. “We are glad to note that in South Africa, Univen is the first institution that contributes to helping their fellow African people. We hope there will be written research from Univen to the African Union related to the review of the launch of the African Union," Chikwanda said.

He advised the students and staff members to remain peaceful Africans who represent a dynamic force in the international arena. “We are a university in transformation, and we have committed ourselves to strengthening our position as a locally relevant but globally competitive institution of higher learning in which all people, irrespective of race, gender or nationality, feel welcome to contribute to our success,” said the university registrar, Prof Edward Nesamvuni.

Nesamvuni said Africans wanted to celebrate the idea of African togetherness and the supporting philosophy of Ubuntu. “It should be our wish that, throughout the continent, there should be values of democracy inculcated in every community. The spirit of tolerance, celebrating diversity in race, tribes, sexual orientation and religion. You need to rechannel your energy towards unifying both local and foreign students and staff. You should eliminate the dividing lines and celebrate unity in diversity,” Nesamvuni said.

The president of the student representative council, Mr Tsundzuka Hakamela, said Univen embraced diversity and did not tolerate racism and xenophobic attacks.

The head of student housing, Mr Lutando Charlie, told the audience not to discriminate against people based on the colour of their skin. “Let us tolerate each other and live in peace and harmony," Charlie said.  The head of the field office at the United Nations Human Rights Council, Mr Rey Chikwanda.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: