News - Date: 15 June 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 342 Uzwothe Mukwevho, who represented South Africa at the Women Deliver Conference in Vancouver, Canada, last week, received a hero’s welcome when she returned to her school on Monday. She is a matric learner at Thengwe and hails from Mavunde village. She was welcomed by her fellow learners, who formed a guard of honour from the main road to Tshilamba to the school while her educators were escorting her and her parents, Mr Ntshengedzeni and Mrs Tshinanne Mukwevho, to the school premises. When she arrived at the school’s assembly point, Uzwothe and her delegation were ushered to a red carpet that was rolled out for her. In a short address, the ever-smiling Mukwevho said she was proud to have been part of more than 8 000 people who had participated in the discussions. The people who addressed the conference included world leaders, advocates, academics, activists and journalists. Mukwevho, whose trip was fully sponsored by the Motsepe Foundation’s Women’s unit, let by Dr Precious Motsepe-Moloi, said she felt honoured to be part of the discussion to find ways to accelerate progress for women’s rights and equal participation everywhere. “In the conference, I leant about the power of the youth and the important role we must play to change the world in preparing for our future,” she said. She mentioned that she had learnt that other youths were driving positive changes and she felt there was a need for her and her peers in South Africa to do more. She said the youth must not be afraid to raise concerns about things that affected their lives.  She urges them to engage in important dialogue. “We must have forums to discuss brilliant ideas to change our learning environment.  We must help to change our community.  We must go out and explore new ideas.  As youth, we must be agents of change.  Gender-based violence and gender equality are issues of concern in our country,” she added. A former principal, Mr Nkhangweni Nemudzivhadi, encouraged other learners to work hard, so that they can have a bright future. He advised them to respect their educators and fellow learners, so that they can succeed in life. Nemudzivhadi also advised Mukwevho to work hard, so that she can achieve more.  Uzwothe Mukwevho.  Email: