News - Date: 15 June 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 210 "Crime is a thorny issue. We know that the majority of young people are unemployed, but that is not an excuse for youth involvement in crime," said Mayor Moses Maluleke of the Collins Chabane Local Municipality. He was speaking during the State of the Municipality Address at Worship Tabernacle Christian Centre in Mavambe last Wednesday.

"We must work together to find ways of involving young people in our Community Safety Forums and Community Policing Forums," he said. He said that the municipality currently boasts four stadiums and for the 2019/20 financial year, they had budgeted an amount of R12 million for the commencement of the construction of the Davhana Stadium. "These sports facilities must keep our youngsters busy at all times. It is, therefore, our responsibility to keep these facilities clean and safe from theft and vandalism," Maluleke said.

He also announced that the municipality will electrify 1 100 units at Xihosana and Mbuti ayi vuyi, and 21 high-mast lights will be installed in 16 villages. "We also have a pipelined project of erecting high-mast lights in all 36 wards of our municipality. This is a programme that will take time, maybe years, but at the end, we want every village to have a high-mast light. We want to have a society where crime is minimized and our people move freely without fear of being battered," he said.

The estimated revenue budget for 2019/20 financial year is R514,134 million and the total operating expenditure is R327, 090 million.

The capital budget is R252, 231 million. "Implementing both operational and capital budgets, the municipality will ensure the maximum use of its Supply Chain Management policy to ensure that our local community benefits from the implementation of both the operational and capital budgets in their areas in terms of Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Regulations as amended," he concluded.  Cllr Moses Maluleke.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: