News - Date: 30 June 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 557 Scores of people flocked to the La'vero Lifestyle Lodge in Sendedza at Nzhelele to witness the crowning of the first ever Miss Nzhelele about two weeks ago. The moment was glorious for the 20-year-old Zinzi Precious Rabada to be crowned the queen. She said that she felt excited to have won the pageant. "Although this was my first time participating in a beauty contest, I never really expected to win. It came as a big shock to announced as the winner. It was tough to compete against girls who have experience, but I'm happy that I managed to impress the judges. I believe there is always a first time for everything in life," she said.

The young girl from Tshikombani said that the event was a great opportunity to showcase her talent. "Now I'm eager to participate in local pageants. I learnt a lot from this event, and it has boosted my confidence for future contests. My dream of being crowned a queen is now a reality," she added.

Thovhedzo Netshimbolimbo was crowned first princess, Ambani Budeli as second princess, Sharon Kwinda as Miss Personality, Zinhle Matiba as Miss Public Choice, and Shudufhadzo Nevhungwili as best traditional dresser.

The founder of the pageant, Ronewa Matumba, said that the aim was to uplift those who were talented to win more lucrative events one day. "Many young people have a talent of being a model, but they don't have a platform to showcase their talents. We want to encourage other youths to follow their dreams too," Matumba said.

The pageant also teaches the models the art of giving. "We want the models to participate in charitable events and also to donate whatever they can to the destitute," she said.  The winners, from left to right, are Sharon Kwinda, Zinhle Matiba, Thovhedzo Netshimbolimbo, Zinzi Precious Rabada, Ambani Budeli and Shudufhadzo Nevhungwili. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: