News - Date: 03 June 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 531 A 26-year-old fashion-design student, Thabo Lawrence Makatu, has taken the fashion industry by storm with his amazing designs and innovations. A resident of Vleifontein, he is currently in his second level of doing fashion design at Vhembe TVET College. “I pursued fashion design and I am pursuing my dreams as a fashion designer,” he said. Thabo fell in love with fashion when he was just a small boy after he had visited Pretoria. In the streets of Pretoria, he saw different, unique clothing styles that grasped his interest and curiosity. “That was when I realised, I also wanted to be unique and true to myself,” he said. “I started buying new, fashionable clothes to wear, but after some time I was not satisfied with the clothes that I was buying from the shops.” After matriculating, he went to register for a qualification in fashion design at Vhembe TVET College, so that he could pursue his dream of being a fashion designer. He even managed to register a company, called Makatu Classic Designs and Agency, which seeks and promotes new modelling talent. Thabo hosts fashion shows and beauty pageants for ambitious models and emerging models, ranging from three-year-old children to adults. “We do such events during holidays or on some weekends around Thohoyandou and Elim, and we are planning to include Louis Trichardt next year.” His shows and events also add more value to the youths who participate in them. He has always aimed to help expose the youth’s talents and creativity to all people who might show an interest in them. “We aim to develop youths who show potential. We encourage them to come and get upliftment and direction, so that they can achieve those goals.” He is also compiling a database of more promoters, sellers and buyers of designer clothes. “We are bringing designers, promoters, sellers and buyers together under one roof during our shows,” he said. “We will be communicating dates for our upcoming events soon.” Thabo can be reached on 079 737 5440 or 073 948 7978. Thabo Lawrence Makatu has taken the fashion industry by storm with his amazing designs and innovations. Thabo Lawrence Makatu is not your average designer but one who sees art in fashion design.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com