News - Date: 06 June 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1442 The news of the death of Const Mbuedzedzo “Mbuyi” Mutshekwa (43) of the South African Police came as quite a shock to many residents of the Vhembe area. He died in a vehicle accident in Gauteng last Wednesday. According to a family spokesperson, Dr Tshilidzi Ratshitanga, the untimely death of Mutshekwa did not only shock the SAPS, but also his family, relatives and even people from outside of the country. “We have received many messages of condolences from around South Africa, and it shows us that Mutshekwa was a people’s person and accommodating to everyone, irrespective of colour, race or religion,” he said. Ratshitanga described his death as a big loss to the family. "He was one of a kind, a unique person who was always ready to help every member of his family and whoever came to him for help. We have lost a great father," he added. He described Mutshekwa as a pillar within the family and the community. Chief Livhuwani Matsila, a relative of Mutshekwa’s, described the deceased as a humble and charismatic leader. He appealed to other policemen to follow the shining example set by Mutshekwa with regard to the fight against crime. Matsila said that Mutshekwa had been a man of vision. “We will always remember him for his hard work, commitment and dedication,” he said. Const Mutshekwa will be buried at Masia tomorrow (Saturday). The service will start at 06:00. He is survived by his wife, four children, his mother and elderly brother and sister. Const Mbuedzedzo Mutshekwa.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za