News - Date: 03 June 2019 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 672 Shoppers and more specifically grant receivers and pensioners were left stranded at the Nzhelele Valley Spar when the workers went on strike this morning (Monday). As many customers were getting ready to buy important groceries, they were confronted by closed doors and the singing and chanting of the cashiers. A disappointed customer, Ms Naledzani Mandiwana, said that she had come to the store early to buy food for her children. “I don't understand what is happening,” she said. “They must meet with the management and resolve this issue, because we as consumers will suffer.” According to one of the striking workers, they are demanding a salary adjustment and a 9% increase. “I have been working here for more than 10 years, but my monthly salary is still less than R4 000,” said another worker, who did not want to be named. Ms Ndivhuwo Sengani said she had been working there from 2012, “but my salary is still less than R 3 500 and I work for more than 10 hours a shift.” The leader of the South African Food and Catering Retail Allied Workers Union, Mr Nndwamato Sithagu, said that they wanted to fight for the rights of workers. The CEO of Njabulo group, which owns several Spars around the Vhembe area, Mr Joe Lubisi, said he knew nothing about the workers' being underpaid. “All workers are paid, but at the end of the day, nobody will ever be paid enough. We are governed by the law and you cannot pay the worker lower than a certain amount. We are going to a meeting and we will try to find a way to resolve this issue." In reaction, a manager at the store told this paper that although this was an illegal strike, wage negotiations were underway with the union. He mentioned that the salaries that the workers received were in line with the previously negotiated salaries. Workers of Spar Nzhelele Valley went on strike on Monday. They demand a salary increase. The CEO of Spar Nzhelele, Mr Joe Lubisi (centre) listens to the leader of the South African Food and Catering Retail Allied Workers Union, Mr Nndwamato Sithagu, describing the grievances of the workers.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently  a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com