News - Date: 23 June 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 316 “There is nothing more fulfilling than being honoured by your own people when you are still alive. This clearly demonstrates that people value the contributions that you do when you are on this earth. My contributions are not for a name or fame; I just feel that one should be part of the community that you live in.” These were the words of well-known Musina businessman Mr Moses Matshivha after he was presented with a lifetime achievement award by the management of the local soccer team, Musina All Stars. A sports fanatic, Matshivha was one of the founder members of Musina All Stars in 1980. All Stars ply their trade in the SAB Castle League after it was resurrected by local community members in 2017. Matshivha said receiving the award from the local community was one of the best experiences of his life. “When we formed the team in 1980, little did we know that it would one day be the pride of the people of Musina.  Those who still remember will agree with me that there was no other soccer team that could beat Musina All Stars during that time. We were so worried when the team stopped operating many years ago, but we are very grateful for those who took the initiative of resurrecting it.  I am also happy that the current team is performing very well, and it has a large following here in Musina.” Matshivha, who continues to support the team financially, said he would continue to assist local communities to fight poverty and underdevelopment. He urged other local businesspeople to lend a hand in the development of their own communities. The managing director of All Stars, Mr Charles Vhengani, said Matshivha’s contribution to the development of Musina All Stars was immeasurable. “This is the man who never hesitates to assist us whenever we approach him. His love for his community prompted us to give him this highest honour. We are very grateful to have someone like him in our community and we really appreciate his continuous support of Musina All Stars,” said Vhengani.  Well-known Musina businessman Mr Moses Matshivha (middle) receives his lifetime achievement award from Cllr Jeremia Khunwana of Musina Municipality (left) and Charles Vhengani of Musina All Stars.  Email: