News - Date: 03 June 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 549 “The establishment of the Musina Campus of the Vhembe Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) College comes at the right time when Musina is preparing to become a city soon. Our people will also be able to acquire skills that will help us to sustain the special economic zone, which is in the early stages of implementation here in Musina.” These were the words of the mayor of Musina, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, during her site visit to inspect the Vhembe TVET College Musina campus last week. The interim campus is located at the site where the old Gateway Primary school used to operate before it moved to a new site. Shortly after inspecting the mobile classrooms and administration block, Muhlope had a meeting with the management of the college to get a progress report before the college opens soon. “The report we received from the college management is very impressive. We will soon call a media briefing to update the media on the progress report, courses to be offered, registration dates and the actual date when learning and teaching will take place.” She added that they were very happy that the mobile classes were already on site and they were equipped with furniture for students and lecturers. “This clearly demonstrates that we are only left with a few things to start operating.” The college has trimester courses and “we don’t have to wait for the beginning of the year to start teaching. This means that learning and teaching can start anytime from now”. Muhlope said taking into consideration that no institution of higher learning existed in Musina, the campus would close the learning gap where students had to travel to other towns to access education. “For many years, our people were struggling to access higher education. We are happy that they will now be able to access the much-needed education on their doorstep.” She thanked the college management, the leadership of the municipality and all the stakeholders who had played a role towards the establishment of the college in Musina. “This is a very huge achievement in our lifetime. We are very proud that we managed to spearhead this development. Furthermore, we have made more land available for the college to build permanent and modern structures in future. We are supporting this initiative with everything possible within our ability.” Photographed during a visit to the Musina Campus of the Vhembe TVET College's Musina campus are, from left to right, Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi (municipal manager), Ms Basani Hlekane (principal of Vhembe TVET College), Mayor Mihloti Muhlope and Messrs Bonginkosi Dladlama (Vhembe TVET spokesperson), Tuwani Malima (curriculum manager of Vhembe TVET) and Daniel Makushu (Musina campus coordinator, Vhembe TVET).  Email: