News - Date: 23 June 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 474 In an incident that has shocked the Madodonga community, two gogos, Ms Elisa Maraga (67) and the disabled Ms Munaka Mudau (63), died in a fire on Tuesday night. Mr Livhuwani Tshivhula, grandson of both deceased, said that they suspected that the fire had been caused by a candle in the room where the two had slept. They were living in a house that was not electrified. All the belongings of the two gogos were destroyed by the fire. Tshivhula said that the two women were staying together in a two-room house. Information regarding the incident is still sketchy, but according to Tshivhula, community members and the police tried to put out the fire, but it was very fierce. “They tried to use buckets of water, but the water seemed to give more power to the fire. Everything burnt to ashes,” he said. He said that the family had accepted the loss, although it was difficult to cope with. "We understand and accept that our beloved gogos are gone, but it will be very difficult for us to live without them. It is also important to acknowledge the community´s support since we were greeted with the bad news. God has done his will," he said. Traditional leader Vhamusanda Vho-Ntanganedzeni Kutama said that this was the first incident of its kind in Madodonga village. “We are deeply shocked, and we request community members to come forward with evidence about the cause of the incident.” He expressed his condolences to the family of the victims and said they would be sorely missed. He added that the community members around the Kutama area were deeply touched by the incident. "The family members of the victims need our support in hard times like these, and we hope incidents of this nature can be prevented," he said. According to him, the family of the deceased are extremely poor and do not have the funds for a proper burial. He asked people who are prepared to help the family to phone him at 083 308 2496. The mayor of Makhado municipality, Cllr Samuel Munyai, said the family should know that the municipality and residents of the area shared their grief. “We know it is painful to lose loved ones, but we would like the family to accept it as it is. This is not the time to point fingers, but for the family to be more united than ever. We will be with you and give you the necessary support wherever possible,” he said. The police said that the police had opened an inquest docket. A spokesperson for the police said that the cause of the fire was not known at this stage, but they were still investigating the matter.    Mr Livhuwani Tshivhula, grandson of the two deceased,  photographed in the room where the two gogos burnt to death.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za