News - Date: 22 June 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 452 The modern generation is often accused of no longer embracing their culture, but some University of Venda graduates proved that they love their culture.

When Avhasei Messie Raphalalani, Khethiwe Zodwa Mkhonto and Ntwanano Baloyi recently took the stage during the Univen Winter Graduation ceremony, they left the audience speechless with their traditional attire.

Raphalalani, who was wearing shedo, said that it was all about showcasing her love for her culture. "I love embracing my culture all the time. I wore it to motivate other African youths to be proud of their culture, especially during special moments such as graduation," she said. She received her bachelor’s degree in education, foundation phase. Bachelor of nursing science graduate Mkhonto said that she decided to wear siswati because she grew up following her culture. "I used to go to eMalangeni, and I love my culture in a way that I decided to embrace it on my big day. I wanted to be unique because many graduates usually wear dresses and suits," she said.

The young girl from Mpumalanga Nkomazi Langeloop, Bhekisisa section, said: "I would like to advise the graduates to always think of simple things, their surroundings and what they usually like. It's not all about wearing expensive attire but the confidence in wearing what suits your body."

Baloyi, who received her bachelor in environmental sciences, was wearing traditional attire called xigaza.

She hails from Valdezia and told Limpopo Mirror that she was creative and wanted to look unique when it came to clothes. “I always choose attire that gives me a good feeling rather than trendy attire. So, I chose my xigaza attire because it made me feel unique and pretty, and that feeling was just enough for me."

The 2017/18 Miss Univen said that some people always gave her strange compliments. "Some people always say ‘You are too pretty to be Tsonga' or that Tsonga people can be so colourful with their outfits. All these pushed me in a good way to show up on my graduation day in traditional dress and to show how proud I am of my identity. I am proud to be Mutsonga," she said.

She added that she studied for a bachelor of environmental sciences because she loved nature. "I want to protect nature. With so much going on around the world, we forget what matters the most, and that is the environment we live in. Somebody needs to look out for it. I studied it because it's a great opportunity to help preserve and conserve our environment and its resources for future generations. I'm always thinking ahead, and it makes me feel better to be part of the people who are working in this world to save it," she added. Ntwanano Baloyi. Avhasei Messie Raphalalani. Khethiwe Zodwa Mkhonto.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: