News - Date: 08 June 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 243 Many people think that study guides are written by academics. This is, however, not the case with a 20-year-old student from Tshidimbini outside Thohoyandou. Mr Zwoluga Mutangwa has become the toast of his area after writing a mathematics study guide for Grade 12 learners, named Final Solutions. The student, who studied at Wits and is now a first-year agriculture management student at UNISA, his brother Mulamuleli Mutangwa (25) and his friend Vusani Neguyuni (30) teamed up to publish a handy study guide to help Grade 12 learners understand mathematics. Mutangwa said the experience they gained at high school and university helped them come up with a simple study guide. "Mathematics is perceived to be a very difficult subject, but to us it is a very easy one. One must relate what they are learning in everyday life in order to understand.” He added that learners must give themselves time to practice. After each lesson, they must revise what they have learnt, so as not to forget, he added. “They will develop love for the subject, and once you love the subject, it becomes very easy and you pass with flying colours," he said. According to him, they are using the guide to test how learners progress after using it. He further indicated they are busy compiling guides for Grade 10 and 11 and will soon be approaching the Department of Education with a view to expanding the project. "We have challenges here and there. Some educators feel we are stealing their limelight, but we are now used to that. Our mission is to see learners passing mathematics with flying colours," he said.  Mr Zwoluga Mutangwa (20) has written a mathematics study guide for Grade 12s.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: