News - Date: 14 June 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 573 Thulamela Local Municipality is the best-performing municipality in Limpopo. This was revealed by Mayor Avhashoni Tshifhango during his budget speech at the Thohoyandou Town Hall last Friday evening. Tshifhango said, according to the latest survey conducted by Africa Ratings on all local municipalities in the country, moving from province to province, Thulamela was in pole position as the best-performing municipality in Limpopo Province. He said he was humbled by the achievement while thanking “those who have taken the reigns and we commit that we will do all within our means to improve on this great achievement”. He also commended the residents of Thulamela for not engaging in protest marches, besides the challenges they faced in their community that were related to service delivery.  He said the doors of the municipality were always opened for any community member to call or visit anytime for the municipality’s intervention. He said 18 000 registered indigents from Thulamela would continue to receive free basic electricity, less rates on water. The indigents are given priority number one on the municipality’s bursary scheme and employment opportunities. Tshifhango said a budget of R110 million had been allocated for the 9.5km tarring of streets at Makwarela Extension 3. R21.6 million was allocated for the construction of Lambani Bridge and culvert, while R17.17 million was allocated for the construction of a bridge between Gwangwatini and Ngalavhani. Tshifhango added that 28 villages had been electrified in the 2018/19 financial year. Fencing was done at the Tshikombani stadium, the construction of the Tshixwadza sports ground was complete, Makwarela stadium was standing at 60% and Makonde stadium at 90% completed. The total capital budget funding is about than R170,4 million for the 2019/20 financial year. Last financial year’s budget was at R172.6 million. The budget has decreased because of the decrease in the MIG grant as well as the decrease in other revenue, such as the sale of sites. The 2019/20 budget is funded as follows: Municipal Infrastructure Grant (R99 383 000) and own funding standing at R71 million.  Thulamela Mayor Avhashoni Tshifhango, Speaker Humbulani Mulovhedzi and Municipal Manager Emmanuel Maluleke toast the success of the municipality after the budget speech presented by the mayor at Thohoyandou Town Hall  Email: