News - Date: 24 June 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 327 The first thing that draws any person to Lufuno Khakhu is her perfect and brilliant smile. She seems to contain an infectious happiness about life, so that those around her cannot help but feel rejuvenated by just looking at her. Perhaps her smile is the quality that won the hearts of the judges during the Miss Mashamba Campus 2019, a beauty contest for the Mashamba-based campus of the Vhembe TVET College that was held a fortnight ago. Lufuno was crowned Miss Mashamba 2019 and all the attendants on the night of the contest seemed to share the judges' decision. A young beautiful woman from Khakhu village, Lufuno said she had all along believed that she could win the contest because she had been trained and motivated by a winner, Unarine Mbanyane, who was the crown holder of Miss Mashamba Campus 2017. “The preparations went very well on my side and I normally believe in myself,” she said. She stated that modelling encouraged girls to have ambitions in life and that it also instilled in them a sense of self-confidence, discipline, and a knack for setting big goals and dreams. “As the youth we must believe in ourselves and follow our dreams,” she said. She fell in love with modelling at the age of five, when she saw a beauty contest on television. “Then I started to practice the basics of modelling, which included all those movements and how to present oneself before people. I kept it at that, until just this year when I entered the Miss Mashamba Campus 2019,” she said. “In my understanding of the world, beauty is attractive, shape, colour, smile and the manner which one might have. Therefore, being Miss Mashamba Campus 2019 means that one of my dreams that I have waited for for so long has come true.” She is currently studying farm management at the Vhembe TVET College's Mashamba Campus. Meanwhile, Konanani Mudau was named first princess while Tshifhiwa Netshepete was crowned second princess. Konanani received a tablet and Tshifhiwa received a cellphone. Miss Mashamba Campus 2019, Lufuno, received a laptop.  Lufuno Khakhu exudes confidence.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com