News - Date: 07 June 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 423 A large group of Indian businessmen gathered at the Thohoyandou police station on Tuesday evening, complaining about the local police’s apparent inability to protect them against criminals. The march to the police station followed an incident at the local mosque a few hours earlier, where armed thugs waited at the entrance to rob visitors. Tuesday night’s incident at the mosque was especially disturbing for the Muslim community in Thohoyandou. It happened on the eve of Eid al-Fitr, one of the Muslim community’s holy festivals which also marks the end of the fasting month of Ramadan. The gunmen apparently pounced on worshippers at the entrance to the mosque. This week’s robberies at the mosque were not isolated incidents and the Indian community feel that they are being targeted by criminals. They say that businesspeople are constantly subjected to violent attacks by armed robbers in Thohoyandou and nearby Sibasa. Indian community leader Mr Ayub Madina said they had tolerated crime for more than 30 years. He said they had been attacked in the streets, at their homes and at their businesses. Now they were even being attacked while going to pray at the mosque. “We cannot just sit down while we stay in an unsafe environment. That’s why we are here to engage the police,” he said on Wednesday morning. Even though many Muslims celebrated Eid al-Fitr, they made their way to the Thohoyandou police station to voice their dissatisfaction with the situation. “We believe the police are not doing enough and we have to work together with the police to put an end to this scourge of crime,” said Madina. The Thohoyandou cluster commander, General Rosina Mulaudzi, called on everyone to give whatever information they had on criminal activities to the police and to work together for a safer community.  Members of the local Indian community complain to the police about the crime in the area. They say that businesspeople are constantly subjected to violent attacks by armed robbers in Thohoyandou and nearby Sibasa.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: