News - Date: 09 June 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 356 After she was crowned as first princess of the Miss Valentine competition in 2009 at the age of 14, Tshifhiwa Forgiveness Mammburu has never looked back.

Her commitment and determination in the modelling industry have enabled her to win more than 20 titles, but she is craving more.

When asked why she was so passionate about modelling, the 24-year-old model from Ha-Ramahantsha outside Louis Trichardt said: "I love modeling because it defines me. Modelling needs someone who is caring, loving, supportive, giving and beautiful, and I have those characteristics, so that's why I love it."

She draws inspiration from a well-known South African model, Basetsana Khumalo.  “She inspired me to be a model by just seeing her being crowned Miss South Africa and being an entrepreneur. That really inspired me. My dream is to win the Miss Mamelodi Sundowns and Miss South Africa titles. Optimism is a skill and those who dream big achieve more. I also want to be crowned Miss Universe, because it will usher in a new beginning to my modelling career," she said.

Some of the titles she have won are: Miss Zwithu Zwintha 2019, Miss Elite SA Limpopo 2018, Miss Cultural Heritage Limpopo beauty with brain 2017; Miss Crystal beauty 2016; and Miss Elegant 2011.

She recently started the Chifhi Charity Foundation to help underprivileged people in her community. "I really want to see my foundation growing and helping less fortunate people in my community and in the country. I want to see my beauty pageant grow and help young ones to show off their talents through the Face of Makhado beauty pageant," she said.

She is signed with the Limpopo Beauty Modelling Academy. She studied for a national diploma in human resources management at MSC Business College. Tshifhiwa Forgiveness Mammburu aspires to win the Miss Mamelodi Sundowns and Miss South Africa pageants. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: