News - Date: 08 June 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 804 An aura of fear is hovering over the Shigalo Khanyi Section of the Collins Chabane Municipality, following the cold-blooded murder of a well-known local mechanic. Mr Aaron Risimati Makhubele (31) was found in a pool of blood after being shot five times in the upper body in his house. He was found by relatives after his phone went unanswered for some time during the weekend. The incident, which has shocked the whole community, happened on Saturday around 22:00. Mr Makhubele had gunshot wounds to the cheek, ribs, face, stomach and at the back. Circumstances around his killing are still a mystery, with no one knowing what could have happened and the reason for the killing. Information at Limpopo Mirror's disposal is that one of the deceased's friends was surprised not to see him and tried calling him, but the phone went unanswered. The friend then phoned Makhubele’s brother, who went to check at his house and could not believe his eyes when he found his brother in a pool of blood. The deceased’s grieving mother, Ms Khubani Makhubele, said she had no idea why her son had been killed and who had killed him. "I am still in a state of shock and confusion," she said. Limpopo police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the incident, saying they had opened a murder case. “So far, there has not been an arrest in connection with the murder, and we have launched a manhunt for the killer or killers. The motive for the killing and the suspects are not known so far. “Anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of the suspects involved in this matter, can contact the Crime Stop number 0860 010 111 or the Crime Line SMS 32211 or the nearest police station," Ngoepe said.  The late Aaron Risimati Makhubele.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: