News - Date: 07 June 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 459 Xihlovo Liticia Mkhavele (15) was crowned Miss Teen Tourism World during the inaugural Miss Teen Tourism pageant held at the Primus Hotel and Resort in Naga City, Philippines, last Friday.

In an exclusive interview with Limpopo Mirror, the young girl from Ka-Bungeni village said that she felt very honoured to be announced as the winner. "I'm very happy and proud of myself. I still cannot believe that I have won. I thank God for giving me this opportunity and the confidence to win such a highly competitive pageant," she said.

"I believe in the notion that nothing is impossible. Although the competition was tough, I worked very hard to make sure that I won. I'm grateful for the opportunity given to me to participate in the event," she said.

The pageant advocates education and aims to open opportunities to young women from around the world under the campaign motto Yes we can! She won the Miss Regal International this year, which gave her a ticket to participate in Miss Teen Tourism pageant.

She started modelling when she was in Grade 1 and she aspires to win Miss Teen South Africa, Miss South Africa and eventually Miss Universe.

Some of other winners during the contest were: Miss Teen Tourism Universe Zandra Nicole Liwanag (Philippines); Miss Teen Tourism International Kiara Eowyn (Philippines); Miss Teen Tourism Earth Siziphwe Jali (South Africa);and Universe Miss Teen Tourism Globe Simram Mamdan (New Zealand).  Xihlovo Liticia Mkhavele was crowned Miss Teen Tourism World. Photo supplied . Some of the contestants. From left to right are Simram Mamdan, Xihlovo Liticia Mkhavele, Zandra Nicole Liwanag, Kiara Eowyn and Siziphwe Jali. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: