News - Date: 28 June 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 830 A new traditional leader, Makhado ‘Vhathundimapfura’ Sinthumule, was installed at Tshiozwi during a solemn occasion on Friday. When installing the new chief, a senior traditional leader, Thovhele Vho-Rudzani Sinthumule, said a new chapter in the Tshiozwi village leadership had been opened. “I hereby officially announce that this is your new traditional leader. Whoever disobeys him will indicate that he also does not respect me as I put the new chief in power. His new traditional leadership name is Vhathundimapfura,” he said Sinthumule urged the community and the family to give their support to the new chief. He also advised the new chief to conduct himself in an exemplary manner and not mix with the wrong people. He also added that the new chief should “not to become big-headed” and warned him that he would be dethroned if he was not prepared to take instructions. He also told the meeting to refrain from bad habits, stressing that political parties should respect the leaders. He encouraged the new chief to work hard and warned him against the danger of abusing his power. Sinthumule urged the residents to give the new leader “complete respect as you did to his father”. He also told the new headman that he was installed during a time of transformation “and you have to join the train and never agree to be left behind”. The mayor of the Makhado local municipality, Cllr Samuel Munyai, advised the new traditional leadership to work hand in hand with different stakeholders for the development of his society. He said that he attended the ceremony to emphasise the strength of the relationship between traditional leaders and politicians. In response, Chief Sinthumule told the gathering that his installation marked a new beginning for the people of Tshiozwi. “We need development here and we are happy that the basics like water and electricity are already here. I will follow in my father's footsteps and not let my people down,” he said. He indicated that he was looking forward to working together with the community members of Tshiozwi. He added that the community had to expect good things that he was planning to bring for the community in the village. “I am also going to encourage traditional dances, to restore the traditional values of the Vha-Venda people,” he outlined, adding that he was also ready to work with the police in terms of reduction of crime in the village.  New Chief Makhado Sinthumule.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za