News - Date: 03 June 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 130 Grade 8 learners of Shirilele High School in Malamulele were advised not to engage themselves in gangsterism, bullying and abuse. During a presentation by the Love Can organization on Tuesday, the founder of the organization, Mr Wisdom Mabasa, said that they wanted to encourage learners to remain true to the purpose that had brought them to school. "We wanted to raise awareness about the dangers of gangsterism, bullying, abuse and a negative attitude towards certain subjects," Mabasa said.

He added that they wanted the learners to have courage to say no to anything that affected their lives negatively. “We don't want them to be in relationships, because it will distract them from their studies," Mabasa added.

He said that learners were falling into bad behaviour from a young age. "If we don’t motivate them early, they will find violence and bullying fun. We hope that the learners will report any acts or incidents that pose a threat to a healthy and peaceful learning environment."

The Love Can organization was started in April with the aim of dealing with factors that can affect the growth, development and the behaviour of young people. "We want to restore the psychological, emotional, spiritual and physical balance that has been lost because of gaps left unattended in families, schools and in our communities," he said. The founder of the Love Can organization, Mr Wisdom Mabasa, motivating the learners.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: