News - Date: 22 June 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 673 Three months ago, the South African police in Limpopo posted rewards of up to a million rand in cash for information that could lead to the arrest of the killers of prominent taxi operators and trade unionists in Vhembe. Since then, no arrests have been made in connection with the murders. Limpopo police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe said the rewards still stood. He said the rewards were part of ongoing investigations of serious cases in the Thohoyandou cluster. Among those killed were prominent Vhembe taxi owners Mr David Muthelo (45), who was gunned down at a busy shopping centre at Dzanani in 2017, and Mr Tshishonga Mbulaheni Peter Nthambeleni (49) of Maniini, who was shot execution style at a car wash at Maniini. That was in August last year. Another taxi owner to be killed was Mr William Nethononda or Thononda (65) of Block F, who was gunned down at his gate in July 2018. Mr Nthangeni Jerry Rammela (66) of Phiphidi was gunned down in what was believed to be a robbery at his home in August 2015. During the killing, cash and a firearm were stolen. Ngoepe said Limpopo Police Commissioner Lt-Gen Nneke Ledwaba had since established a task team to track down the killers of the taxi operators and bring them to book. “The motives of the killings are at this stage unknown, but the ongoing investigations will reveal that.” Anyone with information that can help the police to arrest the suspects involved in these murders can contact Brig James Espach at 082 576 0744 or the Crime Stop number 0860 010 111 or the Crime Line SMS 32211. The information received will always be treated with the strictest confidentiality. “The police investigations are still continuing,” Ngoepe said.  From left to right: Gunned down in cold blood - taxi owner Mr David Muthelo (45); Mr William Nethononda/ Thononda (66), who was gunned down at his gate in Thohoyandou Block F; Mr Peter Nthambeleni Tshishonga (49) of Maniini, who was shot execution style at a car wash in Maniini; and Mr Nthangeni Jerry Rammela (66) of Phiphidi, who was also robbed of cash and a firearm.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: