News - Date: 13 June 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 662 Mourners from all over the province and outside attended the funeral of Const Mbuedzedzo Mutshekwa (43). He was buried at Masia De Hoop on Saturday. He passed away a fortnight ago in a vehicle accident. During the event, the sound of hymns was overpowered by weeping followers. Speakers emphasized that he was a fallen hero, who was involved in the battle to improve his people’s lives. After the service, held at his home, officers marched to the nearby cemetery, where he was buried. “The pain we experience is more than words can express,” said a family representative, Dr Tshilidzi Ratshitanga. “We thank the community for their support since the tragedy struck us. Your presence and contributions made us strong, although we know the tragedy will ring in our minds for the rest of our lives,” he said. The station commissioner of the Rabie Ridge SAPS station, Lt-Col MJ Ngoma, expressed her condolences to the family. She said that Mutshekwa had been a policeman who had been eager to learn. She described him as a brave policeman, who had been loyal to the government and to his fellow man. Vhavenda Vho-Abraham Matsila described him as a pioneer, a born leader and a young man of vision. Thovhele Vho-Nthumeni Masia said that Mutshekwa as a great man who had sacrificed his life to serve his people with distinction. “He played a major role in relation to community development initiatives. We will always remember him for the contributions he made to help the community in different things and fight against crime.”     Policemen carry the coffin of the late Const Mbuedzedzo Mutshekwa.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za