News - Date: 23 August 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 312 Commuters from Vleifontein, Maila and surrounding areas were left stranded last Wednesday when taxi drivers operating under the Tshitale Taxi Association blocked the entrance road to the area. The protest action by taxi drivers was apparently caused by a fight over routes. The taxi association’s members complained that two bus companies, Phadziri Bus Services and Do Light Transport, were not operating legally on the routes. The bus companies were accused of transporting passengers every day without sticking to predetermined routes and times. On Wednesday, passengers were forced to walk eight kilometres to catch other transport to go to work or other places. The chairperson of the Tshitale Taxi Association, Ms Sylvia Machete, confirmed that their drivers had staged an illegal protest and blocked the road. “Our members complained that the local bus service put more buses on their route,” she said. Machete said that the association was worried because the two bus companies were operating like taxis. She said that they did not stick to the allocated time frames and ferried commuters any time of the day. She added that the buses did not even stop at the bus stops. According to Machete, they wrote letters to the two bus companies in an effort to try and sort out the problems, but they received no responses. “I apologise to commuters for what has happened. We are trying to solve the problem,” she said. A commuter, Mr Samuel Mantsha, said that they were forced to walk long distances to get transport to go to work in other areas. “I have to wake up three hours earlier than before. The taxi bosses and bus companies should resolve their dispute,” he said. Another resident, who did not want to be named, said they feared more shooting incidents would follow and that innocent bystanders might get hurt or killed. “The parties should sort out their issues in a civilised manner. We don’t want to get hurt. All we want is to reach our destinations safely.” Mr Tambu Phadziri from Phadziri Bus Services said that they had not received any letters from the taxi association. He said that if they received such an invitation, they were ready to meet with the association.   Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za