News - Date: 09 August 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 710 Residents of Tswinga outside Thohoyandou had a rude awakening last Monday (29 July), when they woke up to smoke and flames at the local Muvhavha Secondary School. Community leader Cllr Tshivhangwaho Makungo said he received a call at around 07:00 in the morning that the school was on fire and rushed there. "On arrival, I found part of the admin block, which houses computers and other valuables, on fire. I summoned the fire department, who responded quickly. The fire was extinguished before it could spread to the whole block and luckily only papers were burnt," he said. Makungo further stated that, to him, it looked like someone had tried to gain entry through a window and, upon realizing that this was impossible, burnt books that were near the window. “It is very disturbing to find that there are people who would not hesitate to destroy the future of our children. The school is our own property and the future of our children, and we should all possessively guard against all forms of criminality.” He appealed to anyone with information regarding the incident to assist the police to bring the perpetrators to book. Chief Tshishonga Netswinga was equally disturbed about the incident. "This is bad. How can a normal person think of burning down a school?” Limpopo police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the incident and said they had opened a malicious-damage-to-property case. "The motive is not clear yet and the suspect(s) is unknown and police investigations continue. Anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of the suspects involved, can phone the crime stop number 0860 010 111 or the nearest police station," Ngoepe said.  The burnt-out part of the admin block at Muvhavha Secondary School at Tswinga outside Thohoyandou.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: