News - Date: 04 August 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 205 Lwamondo village outside Thohoyandou has experienced the closure of three schools as a result of decreasing enrolment, with learners opting for schools in towns. This is set to change for the better and could see the reopening of the schools, thanks to Vandalamo Financial Services, in partnership with Dali Debt Counsellors, who have taken it upon themselves to go out and encourage learners to make use of schools near them. The company hosted an awards ceremony at Victory Life Centre Church at Lwamondo on Friday. Among the guests were traditional leaders and a motivational speaker, Mr Phumudzo Themeli of Divhani Vhuyo Learner Support, who shared his life story of poverty and how he overcame the odds. Vandalamo Financial Services director Mr Ernest Ungulani said his company was aiming to empower the community to develop and had realised that the village could only develop through education. "We heard of the closure of three schools here, and we felt we should encourage learners to attend local schools and not flock to towns. We are giving them cash and certificates as motivation.” He added that rural schools had produced many influential people and professionals “and we are calling upon parents and learners to utilize the local schools instead of travelling to far-away schools, which is costly". He urged learners to study harder for the sake of their future. Chief Lutombo Tshisudzungwane commended Vandalamo Financial Services for having the interests of the community at heart. "As leaders, all we need is development and we know it is only through education that this could be realised. We are calling upon other businesses to follow in Vandalamo’s footsteps," he said. The best overall educator and learner received R500 each, while other best-performing learners received certificates. Vandalamo Financial Services manager Mr Vhudzisani Mulaudzi said they had plans to visit other schools as a way of ploughing back into the community.  Mr  Steven Mashila receives an award from the director of Vandalamo Financial Services, Mr Ernest Ungulani (right).  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: