News - Date: 17 August 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 216 The Sinthumule Traditional Council recently responded to the memorandum of grievances brought by residents of Gogobole. The residents handed the memorandum to the traditional council a fortnight ago. The residents accused the chairperson of the Sinthumule Traditional council, Mr Makhado Sinthumule, of selling stands and small farms, dividing the community through the use of his power, and undermining the local chief. In their response, the traditional council said that the traditional police had not removed stand demarcation poles, whether they were illegally erected or not. “If it has happened, we are advising the aggrieved parties to come forward and report the matter, so that the matter can be investigated.” They further said that the chairperson of the Sinthumule Traditional Council worked hand in hand with all 12 chairpersons of all village councils. He oversaw the administration of all village councils according to the rules and regulation of the Sinthumule Traditional Council. In discharging his duties, he must specifically report to the traditional council and alternatively to Thovhele Vho-Rudzani Sinthumule as the custodian of the Sinthumule community. They further said that if disputes regarding residential stands arose, the matter must be brought to the attention of the traditional council for further investigation and finalisation. The council said that ward councillors were political representatives of Makhado Municipality and were not controlled by the traditional council, “but we only have a working relationship as both councillors serve within the jurisdiction of traditional council”. They further said that the councillors had the obligation to render services to the Sinthumule community without fear or favour. They added that the leader or Chief of Gogobole village was Vho-Nyamukamadi Mukondi Ramabulana Mukhuba and not the current acting incumbent, Vho-Anna Magwala. In his repsonse, Mr Sinthumule denied the allegations raised by the residents that he was dividing the residents by selling stands and small farms to people from outside the village. Sinthumule was adamant that he was not selling stands.” If there is anyone who can say I sell stands, he or she must come forward,” he said. “These are just lies.” He said that residents were used to fighting with the traditional leadership and that residents must leave the royal council to deal with matters of traditional leadership. Sinthumule said that he was busy with his lawyer to open a case of defamation of character against the leader of the residents who had accused him of different wrongdoings. Mr Makhado Sinthumule denies all allegations against him.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za