News - Date: 03 August 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 190 A 23-year-old lady from Magau village, Denga Muremela, is bubbling with joy after she was selected as one of the semi-finalists in the Empress South Africa 2019 contest. Empress South Africa is an online empowerment contest for women, "using the beauty with brain and purpose to empower young women to grow" and develop themselves by making a positive impact in their communities. “I am excited to be part of this contest, and I know I have got what it takes to be an Empress South Africa semi-finalist. I am also striving to reach the top,” Denga said. “Every aspect of this competition is done differently, so I can simply say that I take every challenge in a different way also.” She believes that good comes to those who work hard for it, so whether the challenge is simple or hard, she only has to ensure that she completes it with all the energy in her. “Empress South Africa has empowered me in a good way. I can say I have developed some modelling qualities and skills,” she said. “It has motivated me to come out of my comfort zone, and it's helping me to build my personal brand and experience by engaging with the media and the public directly.” She stated that being a semi-finalist also meant that she had to build up her leadership skills and develop into an entrepreneur. “We learn how to be proactive to create a solid foundation for us to soar as future leaders,” she said. She stated that in order to get to the finals, she would have to engage with celebrities, score some media-coverage points, and raise funds for charitable works in her community. Those interested in Denga Muremela's activities can visit her Facebook page, Denga Muremela Empress SA 2019 Semi-Finalist, and also vote for her by SMSing Muremela Denga to 35334. She is also available on Instagram as DengaHappynessEmpressSouthAfrica2019Contestant.  Denga Muremela is a positive-minded lady. Photo supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com