News - Date: 05 August 2019 Written by: Anton van Zyl / Viewed: 171 Victims of abuse in Louis Trichardt and surrounding areas can once again knock on the doors of the Songozwi Victim Empowerment Programme (SVEP) for help. The SVEP is under new management and the organisation is offering services from its temporary offices at 24A Breda Street. Currently, the SVEP’s services are confined to the provision of support services for victims of sexual and gender-based violence, which include trauma counselling and court support. “However, as soon as resources are available, we plan to launch a comprehensive prevention and empowerment campaign, aimed not just at informing people of their rights, but also building within them the skills and confidence to exercise those rights,” said Benita Kaldine, the new manager. Kaldine explained that under-reporting of incidents still remained a big challenge. “It is estimated that in South Africa only one in nine rape victims report to the police, but it seems to be even worse here in the Makhado municipal area,” she said. Kaldine went on to explain that if victims do not report, they are denying themselves counselling that will help them to heal and allowing perpetrators to carry on brutalising people with impunity. “Tragically, almost 60% of rape victims are children, 30% of them pre-teen. Can you imagine the impact on their lives if they get no help now?” she said. The SVEP’s offices are currently accommodated in the police barracks, but there is an urgent need to find alternative premises. Kaldine stressed that without the generous support of the SAPS, they could not have survived this long. “However, it is not appropriate for victim services to be provided from police barracks, so we must stop imposing and find our own premises,” she added. The most urgent need, however, is to establish a new board. “The SVEP’s chairperson, Mr Matumba, has almost single-handedly held the organisation together since it was registered in 2011. However, he and other members have been on the board for much longer than the term specified in the constitution, so it is time for ‘fresh blood’ to be recruited,” said Kaldine. The SVEP currently relies on the commitment of Benita and four volunteers. No-one is being financially compensated for their services, and some have worked for over a year without even their transport being subsidised. They have secured the (voluntary) support of, and are being mentored by, Fiona Nicholson, who co-founded, developed and ran the Thohoyandou Victim Empowerment Programme between 1998 and 2018. “However, for SVEP to provide the holistic range of victim services so desperately needed in the region will require the support and goodwill of the entire community,” said Kaldine. Top of the list of help needed are the following: * Board Member nominations: The SVEP hopes to elect between seven and ten people who must be available to attend a maximum of six meetings a year. They must share a passion for social justice and the eradication of violence against women and children, and ideally between them have competencies in law, financial management, psychology, NPO governance, human-resource management, health, education and/or fundraising. * Premises: In addition to a bathroom/toilet and kitchenette, the SVEP needs a minimum of five rooms – office, admin, counselling, training, and overnight accommodation for emergency cases. The premises need to be close to town and easily accessible to public transport. * Vehicle: Any vehicle that moves, is registered and safe would be very much appreciated!  The alternative would be to transport victims by taxi, which is highly undesirable. Although the above are most critical, the organisation’s needs are considerable and include office furniture, stationery and equipment, tables and chairs, beds and linen, kitchen equipment, dry foodstuffs (e.g. tins), clothing for victim emergencies and so forth. Kaldine stressed that no donation is too small, and all donations will be receipted and recorded. Please email board member nominations to benitasvep@gmail.com or nicholsonfiona27@gmail.com. Nominations must include the name, gender, current occupation and contact details of the person being nominated, and an indication of what skills or competencies s/he can offer. The deadline for nominations is 3 August 2019.  Venencia Shonhai, the acting project manager of the SVEP, listens attentively while a visitor to the centre explains some of the problems women experience.  Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror since 1990. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.  Email: anton@zoutnet.co.za