News - Date: 05 August 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 520 During matric farewell dances, pupils from wealthy families often celebrate the event extravagantly. Some even go to the extent of hiring a limousine to transport them, but to pupils from poor backgrounds, a matric dance creates headaches. Some pupils cannot afford a matric-dance dress, and this fact prompted four ladies from Tshifudi and Tshidzini villages to start a project of collecting matric-dance dresses. Mulalo Mudau, Ronewa Netshitavhadulu, Khathutshelo Mashila, and Pfanani Mapholi are behind the initiative. According to Mapholi, they realised that some of the girls could not go to their farewell functions because they could not afford the dresses needed for the dances. “We are only collecting dresses for girls because we feel that we can relate to what they go through since we are also females." Mapholi told Limpopo Mirror that every girl deserved a chance to go to her matric dance looking stunning, and not having a dress should not be a reason not to attend matric dance. She said they were trying to get more dresses in order to help rural pupils. "We encourage you to support this wonderful initiative by donating matric-dance dresses. We've already received five dresses, but we still need many more," she said. She advises pupils to be committed to their studies. "Never focus on your matric dance, but on what you want to achieve at the end of the year. The matric dance is just a day that comes and goes. Please don’t force your parents to do things that they can't afford. It's not easy to get a dress, and after that you won't wear it anymore. So, better focus on your studies than a day that won't take you to varsity," she said. People who want to support the initiative, can phone Mapholi on 063 310 1215 or Mashila 079 220 7802.  Ms Pfanani Mapholi. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: