News - Date: 02 August 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 221 Ms Vanessa Buehler from Leuphana University of Lüneburg in Germany has advised the students of Univen not to wait for opportunities but to create them. She was speaking during the official opening of the Student Training for Entrepreneurial Promotion (STEP) at the university auditorium last week. “If you wait for an opportunity to come, it might not come. You should start believing in yourselves because you are equally competitive like any other entrepreneurs in any part of the world,” Buehler said. Univen's Deputy Vice-Chancellor Operations, Dr Robert Martin, told the students who are entrepreneurs to have a vision of achieving big things in life. “A vision is very important in everyone’s life. Your integration in this project will make you a better person and will lead you to be who you want to be. We created this kind of project so that we can change the stories that we hear every day. Go and make impact out there, not only for this area but to the whole world," Dr Martin said. The director of entrepreneurship at Universities South Africa, Dr Norah Clarke, said that “the project is going to be a game changer. Universities need to understand that we need to make sure that there are options for students to choose whether to become employees or employers". "Our organization doesn’t have a mandate and budget to fund students, but we give support where necessary. We support development through teaching and research and make sure that students are skilled with basic knowledge on issues of entrepreneurship,” she added. The programme specialist at UNESCO Germany, Mr Florian Schmitt, said that UNESCO’s mission was to support young people all around the globe. He expressed the hope that STEP would provide universities with the necessary skills to enable students to be entrepreneurs. “Students get an opportunity to start a concrete business. We want to see this initiative succeeding even at Univen. Our long-term goal is to see this project being a success. Use STEP as an opportunity to become job creators rather than job seekers," he said.  Ms Vanessa Buehler from the Leuphana University of Lüneburg in Germany.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: