News - Date: 16 August 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 223 The living conditions of many ordinary women have undergone significant qualitative changes, but the truth remains that women continue to bear a disproportionate burden of poverty, inequality, unemployment, violence and abuse. These were remarks by the mayor of the Collins Chabane Local Municipality, Cllr Moses Maluleke, during Women's Day celebrations at the Worship Tabernacle Christian Church in Mavambe Village last Friday. He said women continued to be marginalized and discriminated against in terms of economic opportunities, the labour market as well as access to land, credit, and finance. "Our government continues to drive us in the direction of empowering women to position themselves in building the South African economy and business sphere. It is high time that we acknowledge that we cannot move forward without the meaningful participation of women," he said. As a municipality, Maluleke said, they recommitted themselves to focusing their attention on issues affecting women as well as raising awareness of the plight of women and girls. "We are working closely with many women’s groups to ensure that their needs are known and addressed through our council programmes. To enhance the role of women in our communities, our municipality coordinates numerous initiatives to empower women with the knowledge and skills they need to bring about change," Maluleke said. "It must trouble our conscience that, 25 years since our freedom, the triple challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality still bear a largely black, rural woman’s face. It must worry all of us, including the private sector as well as faith-based institutions, and move us into a collective radical action to transform our economy, so that it responds to the needs of the masses of our people, particularly women," Maluleke said. He further said, "we all have a shared responsibility in making sure that women are empowered, and a kitchen is not viewed as a place for women. This needs men to empty their heads of the beliefs that a man is not meant to wear an apron or prepare food for his family".   The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: