News - Date: 11 March 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 484 The leader of the New African Apostolic Church, Archbishop Peter Rabali, has warned women not to be deceived by fake prophets who masquerade as men of God. His call came about after Pastor Alph Lukau of the Alleluia International Ministries caused a stir when he claimed to have resurrected a man who was brought to his service in a coffin. Many other strange things such as the eating of snakes, drinking of petrol and eating of grass are happening in churches, bringing the church into disrepute. Rabali addressed women during the church's annual national women's conference held at Tshisahulu. The conference, under the leadership of Ma Archbishop Mmabatho Rabali, started on Friday and the highlight was on Sunday when the local traditional leader, Thovhele Thivhulawi Makumbane, acting Phalaphala station manager Sharon Ravele and Vhembe’s executive mayor, Mavhungu Lerule, attended the closing session. Women’s leader Ma Archbishop Mmabatho Rabali said it was their fifth annual conference where women from all over the country came together and talked about issues affecting them and how to improve their lives. She said they had roped in different speakers to come and speak to the women. Speaking during the conference, Rabali warned the congregation to be cautious about fake prophesies and prophets who he said were bringing the church into disrepute. "So many bad things are being said about the church. We hear of so many unusual things happening like rapes and abuse of women in the church. To you I say do not be party to that. Please love one another and give all the glory to God," he said. Executive Mayor Mavhungu Lerule advised women to do introspection and change themselves if they were to realize change in the world. The host, Thovhele Thivhulawi Makumbane, urged the church to continue praying for peace during the forthcoming elections.  Ma Archbisho Mmabatho Rabali (front), Vhembe Executive Mayor Mavhungu Lerule Ramakhanya (third from right,) Cllr Thina Mbedzi (next to Lerule Ramakhanya) and Phalaphala acting station manager Ms Sharon Ravele (right) join the congregation in song and dance during the conference. Vhembe Executive Mayor Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya (second from left) congratulates the president of the women, Ma Archbishop Mmabatho Rabali (fourth from left), while Thovhele Thivhulawi Makumbane (left), church leader Archishop Peter Rabali (third from left), Cllr Thina Mbedzi (fifth from left ) and Phalaphala acting station manager Ms Sharon Ravele (right) look on.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: