News - Date: 16 March 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 276 “One is never too old to learn.” This is the wise advice from a 68-year-old granny, Teboho Meriam Phiri, who is looking forward to acquiring her Grade 12 certificate this year. Phiri, from Musina Nancefield, has registered to complete her studies part time and she is going to write her final examinations at Musina High School between May and June this year. She has registered for seven subjects, which she hopes to pass with flying colours. “I will be writing life science, history, geography, maths literacy, Sesotho, English and religious education. My studies are my number one priority, and nothing will stand in my way. Come examination time, I will pass all my subjects with very high marks.” While it is said that many other grannies of her age spend most of their time at beerhalls, Phiri has her usual spot at Nancefield Library where she eats and drinks books. Local library users know that if she misses a day, she might not be well or attending to something very serious.  Sitting at her desk in the library, Phiri said she realized that, despite her advanced age, having a Grade 12 certificate would open many doors for her in life. “As a person who likes preparing food, I’m looking at a career in events management with special emphasis on catering. I then realized that it was important for me pass Grade 12 first, so that I could enrol for a course in events management. I have no doubt that I will definitely achieve this in my lifetime.” As a staunch Christian, Phiri says she also has an interest on enrolling for a theology course, so that she can become a qualified pastor. “It is clear to me that it will be very difficult for me to register at a credible theology institution without a Grade 12 certificate. I enjoy the Word of God, but it will be important for me to study theology, so that I can learn how to become a professional preacher. Yes, I am, old but age will never be a stumbling block to realize my dreams.” She said that, apart from studying in the library, she also preferred to study during the night when it was less noisy. “My grandchildren like to spend time with me, and I also give them grandmotherly love. They also enjoy watching television in the evenings, and I give them space to do so. I wait for them to sleep, so that I can get time to study at night. This is paying off because it is advancing my objective of effective study time management.” Her advice to other grannies is: “Never say I will do tomorrow what can be done today.  Age is just a number and we all have the potential of achieving what we have set in life. Let’s get down and study while we are still counted amongst the living.”  The 68-year-old granny, Teboho Meriam Phiri, has no doubt that she will pass her Grade 12 examinations with flying colours. She was photographed while studying at her usual spot in the Nancefield Library.  Email: