News - Date: 16 March 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 255 "I was judged and underrated. I was told that I was ugly and not fit to be a model."

These are the words of a young model, Zinhle Matiba, who aims to put those painful words behind her and make her mark in the modelling industry.

The 22-year-old from Mauluma village said that she started modelling in 2015 after she matriculated in 2014 at Patrick Ramaano Secondary. "I never participated in modelling competitions at school as I grew up in a rural area and I did not even have a clue of what kind of career I wanted to pursue. I knew nothing about modelling, and I didn't know where to start," she said.

She said that she loved modelling, because it was interesting and rewarding. "It helps to build my confidence and it prepares me for public speaking. I love modelling, because I love fashion. I used to be told that I should be a model as I am tall, and I have the right body for it and have the right looks. I also have the right attitude to excel in everything and anything," she added.

She aspires to be a famous model. "There are lot of things that I want to achieve with modelling, such as participating in the South African Fashion Week, wearing top designers’ garments, and entering more competitions. Winning more titles and giving back to the community would be the best achievement I could ever make," she said.

''The title that I wish to win is Miss Universe as the pageant is considered to have a higher status than all of the pageants and is one of the most popular annual beauty pageants," she said.

She said that her mother was her source of motivation. "She provides me with tremendous support and great advice. The advice she gives me ranges from everyday workouts tips to diet plans and putting together a future after modelling," she added.

She said that she was signed at the Limpopo Beauty Modelling Academy. "This academy is really changing the lives of young ones and building their confidence," she added. She studied for a diploma in human resources at the Capricorn TVET College. She is currently studying for a diploma in public administration at Unisa. Zinhle Matiba loves modelling. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: