News - Date: 15 March 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 545 The MEC for Health, Dr Phophi Ramathuba, has officially opened the Madombidzha Clinic, which will be available for service 24 hours a day, during a ceremony a fortnight ago. Members of the surrounding communities were over the moon when the 24-hour service was announced as they were forced to travel long distances to get medical care late in the evening. According to Ramathuba, clinics are expected to provide 24-hour services to the community. She said the government wanted to make sure that patients were attended to anytime they went to clinics. “Gone are the days when our people were told to come back the following day when they visited clinics during the night.” Ramathuba urged the community to take care of the facility, “so that it can be used by generations and generations to come. Government provided this clinic to make sure that you get easy access to health services in your own village”. She also encouraged nurses to provide good service to the community and reminded the community members about the importance of having good relations with the nurses. Vhamusanda Vho-Ntsundeni Sinthumule said he was happy that his community would get medical attention on their doorstep in a modern facility. He said he was also hoping that more services would be delivered to his people. The new building was completed nine years ago. It now serves community members from five villages.  Photographed during the event are, from left to right, Cllr Tebogo Mamorobela, Cllr Elisa Tambani, Cllr Jeaneth Matumba, MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba, Vhamusanda Vho-Ntsundeni Sinthumule, Mr King Sinthumule, Sister Muninde and Makhado Municipality Speaker Lindiwe Mohale during event.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za