News - Date: 09 March 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 435 The well-known and widely travelled traditional healer, Ms Mamaila Makondo, was given a befitting send-off when hundreds of mourners from all over the country gathered at Mphego to bid her farewell. Makondo (88) passed away a fortnight ago after suffering from ulcers. In accordance with her wish, rituals were performed by her initiates on the eve of the funeral and a Christian service was conducted by world-renowned Dr William Madzinge of the CWC. Makondo, popularly known as Maine Vho Phakanani, made a name for herself after helping a family to locate a man who was believed dead after he had been missing for eight days. Her popularity grew after the incident and she was in demand in African countries such as Lesotho, Botswana, and Mozambique, among others, where she spent time helping her clients. Her only daughter, Ms Grace Ratshalingwa, said the death of her mother left a big void in the family that would not be filled. "She was everything to us and we thought she would pull through as her health had improved so much after we had taken her to hospital. She will be sorely missed," she said. In his sermon, directed mostly at the late traditional healer's initiates, Madzinge urged all to put their houses in order in preparation for the life hereafter. He said there would be a resurrection and that all should work in preparation to be in the first group to be resurrected. Madzinge commended Makondo for resisting separate development by not allowing the then government to remove her to Gazankulu as a Tsonga but deciding to stay at Mphego in Venda in defiance. Makondo is survived by her daughter, seven grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren.  CWC president Dr William Madzinge conducts the funeral rites during the late healer's funeral. Dr Willam Madzinge (right) speaks to initiates and family members during the funeral of Ms Mamaila Makondo.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: