News - Date: 18 March 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 827 Motorists and ordinary community members know him as a hardworking and dedicated traffic cop who loves and enjoys his work. However, they know nothing about the other side of the traffic manager at Musina Municipality, Mr Ailwei Mutele. He is successfully shuffling between his roles as top traffic cop, pastor, community builder and responsible family man. A resident of Shakadza village, Mutele surprised many when he received a BA degree in Theology from the Dunamis International University. The event was held in Randfontein, Gauteng, last week. As a staunch member of the Apostolic Faith Church of Portland Oregon, Mutele said that although he spent much time of his work saving lives on the roads, he was silently studying theology to improve his knowledge of the Word of God. “I am an ordained pastor of the Vondwe branch of our church, but I felt that I was incomplete without acquiring a qualification in theology. With the world evolving daily, it is difficult to differentiate between fake and real men of God. When you have qualifications, you are likely to perform the work of the ministry better, because you will be guided by what you studied at the Bible school.” Asked if he had any intention of preaching the gospel on a full-time basis, Mutele said that he had been a traffic cop for the past 33 years but could not rule out the possibility of becoming a full-time pastor “because you don’t choose to be the messenger of God. I will do whatever the Holy Spirit instructs me to do. When you preach the gospel, you represent the Lord on earth. The calling needs someone who is always available and ready to serve the Almighty.” Mutele said it was always good to study because it broadened one’s knowledge. “I am a traffic cop, but I’m studying theology. This means I can easily understand and translate other things that are happening outside my profession. I would advise my fellow brothers and sisters to study further, because when you know, you can also act better in life. I have registered for a master’s degree in theology with the same institution.”  Traffic cop and pastor Mr Ailwei Mutele.  Email: