News - Date: 10 March 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 435 “Tito nwananga, ni sale ni tshi thogomela vhana.” (Titus, my son, you must take good care of the children). These were the last words of church elder and community builder Mrs Suke Elizabeth Ndhlovu Madamalala (89) before she passed away peacefully at Messina Hospital last week. This was revealed by Tito Madamalala, the eldest son of the deceased, during a moving, emotional but celebratory funeral service for his mother that took place at Musina on Sunday. Tito, a highly respected member of the South African National Defence Force based at 15 SAI Battalion (Maunavhathu), said he would follow his mother’s advice, so that her soul could rest in peace. “As an elder of the Bethlehem African Apostolic Church in Sabbath, which was founded by our late father, Pastor Simson Ndhlovu Madamalala, our mother taught us to love God, live cleanly and always strive to live in peace and unity. Her life was well lived and we have no doubt that she is rejoicing with the angels in her next life in the Kingdom of God. Although we are saddened by her death, we thank God for giving us a wonderful gift in our mother.” Tito Madamalala, who took over the leadership of the church after his father’s death in 2008, thanked various churches, community structures, individual community members, family members, Musina Municipality and the SANDF for their support during the death of his mother. “We really value your support because your presence is a comfort to us. We can proudly boast that we have people who love us because this is the time that we desperately need your support.” Another son of the deceased and the former Chief Whip of Musina Municipality, Mr Simon Madamalala, sang the praises of his mother during the funeral. “What more can we complain about when we had a caring mother who had always been there for us through thick and thin? Part of our mourning is to celebrate her life because she was a beacon of hope to the family, the church and the entire community of Musina.” Cllr Siyaphi Shirilele, who represented both Musina Municipality and the ANC, said that Mrs Madamalala’s contribution to the development of Musina would remain to be seen forever. “She was a very faithful member of the ANC Women’s League and her fight against our oppression has paid off. We are enjoying our freedom today because of people like her and her late husband, Simson Madamalala. We will continue to follow her in her foot steps to ensure that our objective of bringing a better life for all is realised.” Suke was laid to rest at Nancefield cemetery in a reserved space in the same gravesite as her husband, who was buried in 2008. The sounds of homemade drums, Zionist songs and dances were the order of the day as her casket was lowered to her final resting place.  The children of the deceased, photographed at their mother’s gravesite shortly after the funeral. They are Moses Madamalala, Khathutshelo Madamalala, Simon Madamalala, Mercy Madamalala, Joyce Vhulahani, Tito Madamalala and Ntuweleni Madamalala. The late Mrs Suke Elizabeth Ndhlovu Madamalala (89).  Email: