News - Date: 21 March 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 637 The local traditional leader at Gondeni La Mabilu outside Thohoyandou, Chief Zwithuzwivhuya Mikosi, said the best way to honour the late struggle veteran Mr Dick Muditambi was to bring services to the community where he had lived. This was during the late soldier's funeral held at the local Gondeni sports grounds on Saturday. Tributes poured in from all over after his death and a message of condolence was received from former MK operative Mthetheleli Mncube, who survived death in combat with the apartheid forces and later spent time on death row. The 72-year-old Muditambi, or Dick as he was known at MK camps, of Gondeni outside Thohoyandou, passed away a fortnight ago at 1 Military Hospital in Tshwane. He was buried during a funeral that was attended by officials from the government, ANC delegates, military veterans, many community members and traditional leaders, among others. He was a retired former SANDF soldier who later occupied different portfolios at the Vhembe District Municipality. At the time of his death he was also serving in the veteran’s league. He left for exile in 1980 and trained in different African countries. As an honour to the late soldier, a 21-gun salute was observed at the local cemetery. Speaking during the funeral, Chief Mikosi described the late Muditambi as a fearless and gallant fighter who had sacrificed most of his life to emancipate the country but had not enjoyed the fruits of his toil. “Government should bring services here. Look at the road and the clinic just as an example. They are in a very bad state and the best way to honour this fallen hero is to bring the much-needed services that Muditambi fought for, but never saw,” he said. Limpopo ANC secretary Mr Soviet Lekganyane called on leaders of the ANC who were alleged to have been involved in corruption not to wait for the courts to find them guilty, but to step aside and wait for processes to unfold and clear their names.  Members of the MKMVA carry the coffin of the late commander of MKMVA and councillor of the Vhembe District Municipality, Cde Dick Muditambi. Photo: Silas Nduvheni. Some of the dignitaries who attended the funeral. From left are: Executive Mayor of Vhembe District Municipality Mavhungu Lurele-Ramakhanya, ANC Provincial Secretary Mr Soviet Lekganyane, MEC for Cooperative Governance, Human Settlement and Traditional Affairs Mr Jerry Ndou, Vhembe ANC regional secretary Advocate Anderson Mudunungu and regional chairperson Tshitereke Matibe. Photo: Silas Nduvheni.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: