News - Date: 22 March 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 309 “Universities are the dominant producers of new knowledge. They provide opportunities for social mobility and simultaneously strengthen equity, social justice and democracy. They are important public institutions that must assist in making contributions to our country’s overall developmental priorities.” These were the words of Dr Ndanduleni Bernard Nthambeleni, who was inaugurated as the fifth vice-chancellor and principal of the University of Venda (Univen) last Friday at the university auditorium. Dr Nthambeleni said that Univen must contribute meaningfully to the development of a critical mass of quality trained graduates. “The university should not only lead in research output, but must provide relevant solutions that will contribute to South Africa's development, especially in employment creation and poverty alleviation. Our university must also be committed to redress and development, specifically in terms of broadening the access to higher education for those who have previously been excluded," Dr Nthambeleni added. In addition to educating future citizens and leaders, Dr Nthambeleni said universities carried the responsibility to find solutions for complex social and economical challenges that South Africa was facing. “Univen must make an impact and our existence must be felt by the communities,” Dr Nthambeleni said. Nthambeleni want Univen graduates to acquire basic skills in the form of creative thinking, oral communication, goal setting, team work and self-esteem, which are important for purposeful living. “We should produce students with the skills and competences required to meet the human-resource needs of our country,” he said. Univen Vice-Chancellor and Principal Dr Ndanduleni Bernard Nthambeleni (left) and Univen Registrar Prof Edward Nesamvuni (right).  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: