News - Date: 15 March 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 975 The Thulamela Local Municipality is in mourning, following the death of Cllr Shonisani Mulaudzi. Mulaudzi, who was a senior member of the Democratic Alliance (DA) in Vhembe and a PR councillor at Thulamela, passed away on Sunday, 10 March, in a hospital in Gauteng after a long illness. Mulaudzi was a member of the executive committee at Thulamela where she was also heading special programmes since the 2016 local elections. Born on 16 May 1962, Mulaudzi was a member of the Independent Democrats until she defected to the DA, following her leader, Ms Patricia de Lille, who then joined the DA. She was a deputy fundraising officer for the DA in 2013 until 2017.  She was also in the provincial executive committee and a party liaison committee member for the IEC. She leaves behind four children, three girls and one boy. She is also survived by her mother, Ms Makwarela Mulaudzi. The mayor of the Thulamela Local Municipality, Cllr Avhashoni Tshifhango, and members of his executive committee visited the family at Maniini on Monday afternoon. Tshifhango hailed Mulaudzi as a dedicated member of the council who took her work seriously. “In Thulamela, we always put people first.  When we were working with Cllr Mulaudzi, one could not see that she was coming from an opposing party because we worked as a team. To the family, I am appealing to you to be united in this trying time, so that we can find it easy to help you in whatever way,” said Tshifhango. The DA premier’s candidate, Mr Jacques Smalle, described Mulaudzi as a true democrat and a people’s servant and said that she was reliable and executed her responsibilities with great professionalism and passion. In a media statement, Smalle described her death is a huge blow to the party, considering the forthcoming national elections. A joint memorial service was held at the municipality’s council chamber on Tuesday morning. Her funeral is scheduled to be held at Ha-Piet Boy, Mulenzhe, tomorrow (Saturday) morning.  Cllr Shonisani Mulaudzi. Photo supplied Thulamela Mayor Avhashoni Tshifhango, second from left, with Ms Phophi Manavhela (standing), Shonisani’s mother, Ms Makwarela Mulaudzi, and Ms Munzhedzi Manavhela, photographed during his visit to the bereaved family.  Email: