News - Date: 04 March 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 265 Learners from three rural primary schools in the Tshaulu area outside Thohoyandou were left motivated when celebrities in the music industry urged them to take their education seriously. This was during an event organised by the owner of Netshituni Bus Service and Coaches, Ms Lucia Netshituni. The philanthropic and humble businesswoman's core business is transportation, but she is very passionate about education. She hosts events annually to motivate thousands of Grade 12 learners from different circuits to work hard. They are transported and fed free of charge, and experts and celebrities from different fields are roped in to give them advice. This year, as part of the event, the whole management of the company, led by brand manager Mr Vusi Masakona and general manager Ms Pollet Sambo, kicked off their campaign last Wednesday by visiting Gaba, Tshaulu and Manzemba Primary School. The management team was accompanied by celebrities from the music industry, well-known DJ, businessman and music producer Rabs Vhafuwi, Rita Dee, and superstar Makhadzi. Brand manager Vusi Masakona said their company had, through their social responsibility wing, taken a conscious decision to support education, among others. "Learners are the future of this country and we have to start supporting them at an early age. This is our humble contribution and a way of giving back to the communities that support us," he said.  Vhumbedzi circuit manager, Mr Fulufhelo Muedi (standing left) Netshituni Bus Service and Coaches management, members of the school governing body, celebrities Rabs Vhafuwi and Rita Dee and happy learners photographed during the visit at Gaba Primary School.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: