News - Date: 11 March 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 221 The Thulamela Local Municipality has been honoured by the South African Local Government Association (Salga) in recognition of good work done by the municipality. The trophies were handed to the municipality during Salga Limpopo’s recent awards ceremony at Meropa Casino and Entertainment Centre in Polokwane. Salga gave a trophy and certificate to Thulamela for receiving an unqualified audit opinion from the auditor general for the fifth year in succession. Another trophy and certificate were given to recognise that the municipality had spent 100% of the municipal infrastructure grant (MIG) in the last financial year.

Thulamela Mayor Avhashoni Tshifhango said that he was honoured by Salga’s gesture. He was, however, quick to point out that they were succeeding in their work because they were working together within the municipality.

“As a municipality, we work as a collective. This helps us to achieve what people think is impossible and helps us succeed to a point where we get these awards. Many thanks, everyone - municipal manager Maluleke, councillors and all staff members, from junior to senior positions.”

The mayor also urged community members to pay for their services, so that the municipality can continue to render quality services to the people. He also encouraged community members to attend IDP meetings, so that they can help the municipality to identify their needs in order to deliver according to their guides.

He also advised community members to get information about developments in their area from local councillors to avoid unnecessary protest marches. “There are many projects in our communities. Some are still in the planning stage, while some are in the procurement process. Unfortunately, many of our community members are not informed. We appeal to our community development workers and councillors to update our communities about the status of service-delivery issues in their areas,” said Tshifhango.  Cllr Avhashoni Tshifhango.  Email: