News - Date: 17 March 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 692 Many women are in abusive relationships and they do not have a platform to share their experiences with other women and get some advice. 

To offer women who find themselves in such predicament a platform, Ms Mulalo Magoro from Thohoyandou started her foundation, You are not Alone, last year to help them. She said that the foundation's main objective was to host seminars for women all around the world. "The seminars create a platform for women to come and share their testimonies on how they were able to make it out of physically, emotionally, mentally and financially abusive relationships," she added.

She also said that the foundation wanted to create a safe environment for women to be honest with themselves about their relationships. "We want them to have the confidence to walk away from abusive relationships with no fear. It aims to restore women's hope and faith in relationships," she said.

In an exclusive interview with Limpopo Mirror, she said that her painful past had encouraged her to start the foundation. "I started the foundation because I went through a stage in my life where my relationship ended in a very painful manner. I was engaged to a man who later decided he didn't want to marry me anymore," she said. "He started cheating on me with a couple of ladies and, unfortunately, we had to end the relationship. I had to take off my ring. He then got married after a couple of months."

The foundation will host an event on 30 March at Lighthouse Christian Church in Nzhelele Sendedza. "The event will start at 10:00. The event is open to women of all ages, married and unmarried," she said.

She can be reached on 0748278934 or at mrathando@gmail.com. The founder of You are not Alone foundation, Ms Mulalo Magoro. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: