News - Date: 30 March 2019 Written by: Phathutshedzo Luvhengo / Viewed: 356 When residents of Phadzima village in Nzhelele took to the streets this week, an 81-year-old pensioner supported them, hoping that the government would heed the call and resolve their water problem. Samuel Ramalivhana, who relies solely on his grant for survival, learnt of the protest on Monday evening when infuriated residents started to cause chaos. They barricaded the main road that passes by the village with stones, burning tyres and tree branches. “This strike should have started a long time ago. As long as those protestors are not damaging any property but the road, which is government property, I support them,” he told Limpopo Mirror on Tuesday evening. He said that the water problem had started in December last year and when they had complained to their leaders, they had only been told that the pipe that distributed water in their area needed to be repaired. Residents’ anger erupted on Tuesday morning, leaving commuters in the area frustrated and without transport to commute to work. Some of the households in the area get water in their taps at home, while many residents do not get water at all. This means they have to find transport or buy water for survival. The Mutshedzi Dam and reservoir are situated in Phadzima, supplying water to some of the villages from Mauluma, Makungwi and other areas throughout, up to Dzanani Township. “These leaders are telling us that those people are getting water that is not purified. Why can't they also give us water, even though it is not purified?” Ramalivhana asked. He also complained that he bought electricity and other household items with his grant money and he could not afford to buy water. He said that the government should listen to the residents and sort out the water problem and ensure all residents received clean water equally. “It is a better life for friends and relatives. These politicians don’t care about people but their stomachs,” he said. On Tuesday evening, different stakeholders and community members met to resolve the problem. Vhembe District Municipality spokesperson Matodzi Ralushai said the municipality was well aware of the problem. “It is just a misunderstanding between residents and their leaders that led to the protest,” he said and added that they were trying to repair the pipes, but their technicians could not go into a hostile area. According to him, they would only visit the area on Thursday when the situation would probably be calm. “Some of the residents receive water. It is just a few lines that are not working, and we are trying to solve them,” said Ralushai. He said as a municipality they strived to maintain the infrastructure and allocate contractors to several areas within the district, so that residents could get water. “They are angry and feel that water is not distributed equally. Their disturbance affects our work,” he said. At the time of our going to press, roads were still closed in the area, with reports that protest actions might escalate.  Residents burnt tyres on the road in an attempt to get the municipality to listen to their problem. Residents barricaded the road with tree branches.  Email: