News - Date: 07 September 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 532 A 19-year-old Grade 12 pupil at Sinugani Secondary School, Offence Lambani, is reeling with shock after the shack in which she stayed mysteriously caught fire and burnt down completely. The incident reportedly happened on Saturday at about 02:00 at Magau village in the Sinthumule area. Offence was not at home at the time of the incident. She was at the school's seasonal camping, where pupils are studying while based at the school day and night. “I feel sad for what had happened to our house,” she said. “My mom is currently working in Gauteng where she has been trying to make ends meet, and the last I heard from her, things were not going well. I am really frustrated as a child and learner.” She has lost all her belongings in the fire - such as her ID card, food, clothes, furniture, pots and utensils. “I am only left with a school uniform that I was wearing when I went to school that night,” she said. “I am currently writing exams and I don't want this situation to disturb me.” Cllr Mavhimbi Mashamba of Ward 23 of the Makhado Local Municipality paid Offence a visit on Monday and Tuesday to monitor her situation. “We are appealing to businesses to consider helping this young woman out during this difficult time of her life,” Mashamba said. “She needs food, blankets and clothes. And more than anything else, she needs a decent shelter, a stable house, for that matter.” Those interested in assisting Offence can contact Mashamba on 079 054 7247.  Cllr Mavhimbi Mashamba paid the fire victim Offence Lambani a visit while she was going through the rubble.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com