News - Date: 01 September 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 121 Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School in Ravele Village has been one of the stalwarts among the many companies and organisations that sell Casual Day stickers in Limpopo. According to Ms Fridah Mammburu, the school’s deputy-principal, they sold 5 900 Casual Day stickers last year and their aim is to sell 10 000 stickers per year. According to her, everybody at the school helps with the sale of stickers. “We sell to other schools, clinics, hospitals, churches and police stations, as well as people in the streets, and organisations and business offices in the area.” Casual Day, a flagship project for the National Council of and for Persons with Disabilities, will be held on Friday, 6 September. Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School has been selling stickers since 2009. According to a media statement, the school has been the third-best-performing NGO in Limpopo for Casual Day merchandise sales for the past two years and it has regularly featured among the ten top schools for sticker sales. The Casual Day sticker sales directly benefit the school - the sale of stickers and golf shirts has funded a new bakkie for the school, while the proceeds from Casual Day, together with funding from the Khoroni Hotel Casino Convention Resort, paid for the building of a four-classroom block. According to the principal, Ms Mufunwa Ramutshila, the school caters for learners with intellectual impairments, which include reading and writing difficulties. “The curriculum focuses on a variety of skills such as woodwork, carpentry, pottery, sewing, food preparation and nail, beauty and hairdressing. Each learner is taught to master two skills in preparing them for the job market when they leave school.” She encouraged members of the community to continue supporting them as it helps them to make a continued difference. “It is important that the wider community understands the value of Casual Day in supporting persons with disabilities and special needs schools,” said Mammburu. Casual Day 2019, which will be held on Friday, 6 September, will benefit more than 600 non-profit organisations and special-needs schools directly. Other beneficiaries include the South African National Council for the Blind, the South African Federation for Mental Health, the Deaf Federation of South Africa, Autism South Africa, Alzheimer’s SA, The National Association for Persons with Cerebral Palsy and many more.  Mesdames Annah Mutobvu (Casual Day coordinator for the school) and Fridah Mamburu, deputy principal, in front of the bakkie the Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School bought with Casual Day proceeds.  Email: