News - Date: 27 September 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 507 The family of the late Archbishop Thifhatelwi Enos Khuphani of Ha-Mutsha village said he would be remembered for all the good he had done for his family and the community at large. Khuphani (54) passed away last Friday after a short but unspecified illness. He was leader of the Gondo La Vhutshilo Apostolic Christian Church of South Africa at the time of his death. The church has more than 20 branches countrywide. The late archbishop’s first-born, Ms Vhutshilo Khuphani, eulogized her late father as someone who had worked tirelessly to bring many people to the fold of God, having travelled the length and breadth of the country and outside its borders. “My father was a leader who loved his family and his flock. He would travel as far as Botswana, healing people through his God-given powers. We will always remember all the good he did in pursuit that we all got decent lives,” said Vhutshilo. The late Archbishop Khuphani was born in 1964 at Ha-Mutsha. He did his primary education at Mutsha and later at Mangilasi. Like many at the time, he left school and did construction work in the then Pietersburg. He learnt a lot under his employer, Mr Frans Louw, and together they built many big buildings in Polokwane and locally. In 1996, Khuphani left his full-time job after being called to serve the Lord. He undertook a pilgrimage to Botswana and started his own church, together with Senior Ravhulidzhi Nethononda at Mutsha Tshidzivhani. The church was started at his home upon his return in 2001. Some of the countries he visited are Botswana, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Swaziland, Nigeria and Ghana. He had three wives, one of whom is deceased. He is survived by 25 children and 11 grandchildren. He will be buried at the church's headquarter on Saturday at 06:00. The funeral will be preceded by a night vigil on Friday starting at 22:00. A memorial service is to be held on Friday (today) at the church's headquarters, starting at 12:00.  The late Archbishop Khuphani, who will be laid to rest on Saturday.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: