News - Date: 28 September 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 812 At a time when the continued violence against women and children keeps stealing the spotlight, a well-known actor and Tshivenda film producer finds himself facing assault allegations. Actor and celebrated Limpopo comedian Tambudzeni Rasendedza, better known as “Mr Bundu”, made a quick appearance in court last Wednesday (18th).  Rasendedza, who plays leading roles in Tshovhilingana and Bundutshikondoni films, is accused of having assaulted his live-in lover, Ms Tshifhiwa Nedididi (25). He allegedly also burned her body, using hot plastic. Allegations are that the comedian from Lwamondo Matatani outside Thohoyandou attacked Nedididi a few weeks ago, but the incident was kept a secret. It only came to the fore when she was taken to the local Tshilidzini Hospital on the advice of the police. Nedididi apparently tried to open a case at the local Thohoyandou police station and was referred to hospital. The badly injured woman, who still had fresh wounds on her body, was allegedly not immediately taken to the hospital. Only after her mother had called her and found out about her condition was she taken to the police. She was then referred to the trauma centre at Tshilidzini Hospital by the Thohoyandou police. In an interview last week, Nedididi alleged that she had endured a lot of pain as a result of the beatings she had received from the actor during their three years of marriage. She alleged that he had threatened her, should she speak about the matter or report him to the police. “I only decided to come out in the open because I wanted people to know of what I am going through.” “I am also doing this to encourage other women going through what I am going through to speak out and not keep quiet, as they will die without getting help. If it were not for my mother, I would have died in the house without people knowing,” she alleged. Rasendedza vehemently denied the allegations made against him, saying Nedididi was just bitter because they could not agree to the terms of their marriage. “This woman is a pathetic liar. She tried to force me into marrying her in community of property, which I refused. As a result of this, she swore that she would punish me and I have no doubt she is doing just that,” he said. He added that the woman was just trying to tarnish his good name and to destroy his career. Rasendedza appeared in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on 18 September. He was released on bail and his case was postponed to 25 October. Nedididi’s father, Mr Godfrey Mushavhi Nedididi, fumed at the way the case was being handled. “This is not like a case of a person who hit another using a fist. Here we are talking of a serious case of attempted murder; a person whose body is full of severe wounds as we speak. They only made him pay R750 bail, which is an insult to us as a family. He does not deserve to be out, and I feel the justice system has been very lenient here,” he said.  Actor and celebrated Limpopo comedian Tambudzeni Rasendedza, better known as “Mr Bundu”, is accused of assaulting his wife. Ms Tshifhiwa Nedididi (25).  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: