News - Date: 02 September 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 427 A group of positive-minded individuals has embarked on a noble project of adding value to the lives of pupils in the rural areas. The non-governmental organisation, Muthu Ndi Vhuthu Foundation, recently donated sets of study guides to the pupils of Tshiungulela Secondary School at Tshikwarani village in the Kutama area. This was during the organisation's recent motivational session with the Grade 12 pupils. “In this age, we want to see all pupils passing mathematics and mathematical literacy with flying colours,” said the organisation's chairperson, Mr Phathutshedzo Mamafha. “So, we donated study guides and answer books on those very subjects.” He added that the organisation had been started in 2016 with the purpose to serving the underprivileged youth in rural areas. “Our key focus is to cater for the pupils' welfare, social and educational development, health and well-being,” he said. Muthu Ndi Vhuthu Foundation's secretary, Mr Tselahale Serongwa, said pupils should use education as a weapon to change the world as outlined by the late state president, Nelson Mandela. He then advised the pupils to compete with their former selves. “You must aim to do better than what you did yesterday,” he said. “Look at your mid-year reports and see to it that you aim for marked improvements. You should obsess with self-improvement rather than fixating on other people's glory and different paths.” Mathematical literacy educator Ms Takalani Ravhuhali and maths educator Ms Angelinah Maumela thanked the foundation for the supplementary study materials. They also encouraged the pupils to study smartly and with purpose to achieve their goals.  Photographed with the Tshiungulela Secondary School pupils are (from left to right) Mr Phathutshedzo Mamafha, Ms Takalani Ravhuhali (educator) and Mr Tselahale Serongwa. Photo supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com