News - Date: 29 September 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 405 The 17-year-old Tshedza Mudau was crowned as the Face of Makhado during the third edition of the beauty pageant held at Louis Trichardt show grounds on Saturday. Tshedza told Limpopo Mirror that she was very happy about her achievement. “I am delighted by winning this pageant and it was by God’s grace that I snatched the title. Although the pageant was fun, the pressure was frightening because other contestants were also committed, but I managed to compose myself,” she said. A resident of Khubvi village, Tshedza said she wanted to be an inspiration to the youth with this title and also to be the voice of the voiceless. “I want to lead by example and be a role model for young people. I want them to be able to look at me and say if she can do it, I know I can do it.” Tshedza, who is a learner at Thengwe Secondary School, said modelling was her passion and she loved it when everyone’s eyes were on her, because it boosted her confidence. “I started modelling last year. Ever since I was a kid, I have always wanted to be a model, but because of different circumstances that prevented me from becoming one, I wasn't able to.” She said that her dream was to become Miss Universe or Miss South Africa one day. Emily Nkoana was the first princess, Nicole Nelushi was elected second princess, and Anwani Ravele won the public choice award. The founder of the pageant, Tshifhiwa Mammburu, said that the pageant aimed to help less fortunate people and the youth to showcase their talent and achieve their dreams. “I thank Butali Financial Services, Windows Printing, MSC Business College, Hope n Ville and Menlso Pty for sponsoring the event.”  Tshedza Mudau, the winner of the Face of Makhado pageant. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: