News - Date: 08 September 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 211 The Limpopo Legislature hosted the 2019 Women's Parliament at the Masisi Community Hall in the Vhembe District last Friday. Speaker Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya said that the 2019 Women’s Parliament was a first to be hosted by the sixth legislature, with a clear objective to empower women of Limpopo to ensure their meaningful public participation in the governance processes of their province. "We stand by this objective, because we fully understand that as the people’s legislature, we must ensure that public participation by our people does take place," Lerule-Ramakhanya said. The event was held under the theme: 25 years of democracy: growing South Africa together for emancipation of women. She expressed appreciation for the “great work done by the standing committee on Quality of Life and Status of Women, Youth, Children and People with Disability, led by Ms Mapula Mokaba-Phukwana. "This committee exists to safeguard and advance the interests of our people, particularly women, youth, children and people with disabilities because they are often marginalized," Lerule-Ramakhanya said. She highlighted that the role to build communities cannot be the sole responsibility of the government. "Women should continue to be the pillars of strength in our communities," she said. "We can achieve a lot by identifying gaps or even projects that will benefit our people and request the assistance of government,” she said, adding that the sixth legislature was passionate about changing the lives of the people for the better, “but the achievement of this objective begins with us as women. We are the pearl of creation and should never doubt our worth". According to her, women “continue to fight against patriarchy, gender-based violence, inequality, unemployment and poverty. We, however, equally appreciate the change we have observed over the years but are not comfortable with how things are." She encouraged women to continue serving their communities with commitment and dedication. "You should continue to do the great work in your communities. We still have an important role to build our communities and this role cannot be the sole responsibility of government. We all know that without us, no household will function and the same goes for government," she said.  The Women's Parliament during its sitting at Masisi.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: