News - Date: 21 September 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 259 This year's gathering of the Lemba Cultural Association (LCA) at Sweetwaters on Moddervlei Farm, outside Elim, marked the 60th conference of the association. Hundreds of people from all corners of South African flocked to the farm for the event. The association's general secretary, Ishe Phineas Malima, urged the members to work harder towards building the LCA and developing their community. “We are not a second-class version as Lembas; hence we must strive towards full recognition as a people living in Southern Africa,” he said. “Do you fully understand and treasure the kind of unique wisdom and rare knowledge that our pioneering elders showed us and other nations through the ages? If we are aware of the good works that our elders have done in this world, then we would live in peace, harmony and respect, so that we do not disgrace the Lemba community.” He hinted that the Lembas recognise the existence and importance of youths in the body of the association and went further to dissuade them from getting involved in sexual relationships before marriage. “Even alcohol and drugs will sway you from concentrating on building your future through education,” he said. Ms Rejoice Mabudafhasi, former Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture, was one of people who were recognised for outstanding services in the Lemba Cultural Association. “We cannot recognise and award all individuals as of this year, but we'll continue to do so at the coming annual conferences, so all hardworking people are acknowledged,” Malima said. The president of the Lemba Cultural Association, Ishe Pandelani Mutenda, thanked all members and dignitaries who had managed to attend the conference. “Let's continue to build the LCA and promote love, peace and harmony within the LCA,” he said. “We urge all our youths to go and start preparing for the final exams, so that they sit for exams and write with confidence.”  In the photograph are (from left to right) Mr Phineas Malima, Ishe Pandelani Mutenda (president), Mushavhi Paul Cohen (Rustenburg branch, LCA), Ishe Mabela Sathekge (deputy secretary), and Mushavhi Patrick Madavhu. The Botswana cultural singers and dancers, Thagko yaga Autate, entertained the people with their unique clap-and-tap music.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com