News - Date: 27 September 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 521 The Mascots and Kidz Festival 2019 promises to pull thousands of fun lovers to the full-day children's event, which will be held at the Mphephu Resort tomorrow (Saturday). The festival is hosted by VCC Music. The organisation’s managing director, Mr Tshilidzi Bobodi, said that the event, through its diverse activities, aimed to stimulate children’s minds. “We had held several events where we visited schools in villages, townships, crèches and pre-schools as a build-up to the festival,” he said. “We started doing that as early as February this year.” The Mascots and Kidz Festival 2019's activities will excite the children and keep them busy by involving them on the stage alongside mascots, caretakers and entertainers who include, among others, Bundu, Makhadzi and Percy the Postman. The fair also boasts athletics competitions such as a 100m race for boys and girls aged 4 to 5 and a 100m race for children of age 6 and 7. The winners receive R500 in cash. “The first 100 children to enter get a free school bag, while the second 100 children receive a T-shirt,” he said. “The first 100 adults to enter will get a free T-shirt, and secondary-level children stand a chance to win a tablet, while parents stand a chance to win kitchen appliances.” Bobodi said the mascot activities were both stimulating and educational to children. He said children needed to get exposed to positive fun from an early age. “This is the biggest family festival in Limpopo Province, where parents get to spend their time together watching their kids playing and enjoying all sorts of entertainment which they normally see on television,” he said. The gates open at 08:00 and the festival runs until 17:00. Tickets are R60 (kids) and R70 (adults) and can be bought at Computicket (Shoprite, U-Save, and Checkers).  Monada.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com