News - Date: 01 September 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 175 The Vhembe District Municipality has donated 50 sets of protective clothing and working tools to the Universal Greenery Organization (UGO) at the University of Venda. The value of the 50 work suits, helmets, sets of gloves, boots, and reflectors vests is R150 000. The handing over of the tools was made by Cllr MR Magada, during a ceremony held at the Univen campus last Friday. According to Mr Zwivhuya Mulaudzi, chairperson of UGO, the organisation was established in 2014 by the students at the School of Environmental Sciences. “When this project started, the idea was to protect natural resources such as streams, rivers and trees.  We encourage people to avoid deforestation, because trees produce oxygen, which we rely on it.  Trees also help to avoid global warming,” said Mulaudzi. He said the initiative also helped to provide a link for students to get an opportunity to protect nature, while working with nature reserves, nurseries and environmental consultants. UGO, which has 40 warriors, rehabilitates wetlands and cleans rivers. Cllr Magada said the relationship between the municipality and UGO started three years ago.  As a water-services municipality, Magada said it was important for them to support UGO as they were helping them to preserve water resources. “The serious loss of water wetlands is caused by many factors such as the building of dams, the burning of forests, the use of wetlands for waste disposal, the abstraction of water and the drainage of wetlands for agriculture cultivation. Careful consideration should be given to preventing the continued destruction of wetlands,” said Magada. Magada said communities should be taught about the right farming methods and rehabilitation should be of extreme importance. “South Africa is a developing country and most of our rural communities depend heavily on wetlands for cultivation, grazing and water,” said Magada.  Working tools and clothes to the value of about R150 000 were donated.  Email: