News - Date: 30 September 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1050 “Behind everything we do there is a purpose. Everything we do is aimed at conserving Africa’s wilderness and wildlife, taking care to include local communities in this process. This also includes creating journeys that change lives and inspire positive action,” says Mr Sydney Fhumulani Mikosi. Mikosi, who hails from Ha-Mabilu, won the prize as best nature guide in Limpopo in the 2019 Lilizela Tourism Awards. The prize-giving ceremony took place last Tuesday at The Ranch Hotel. This is the second time that Mikosi has won a Lilizela award. In 2016 he won the Lilizela award for best guide in South Africa. The energetic nature lover attended Mikosi Primary, Gondeni Senior Primary and Frans Rasimphi Secondary schools. After passing matric, Mikosi studied to be a field guide at the Limpopo Field Academy. He then enrolled at the University of South Africa to study nature conservation. To top off his academic career he enrolled at the Southern World College to study as an assessor. In 2007, Mikosi started working as a field guide at Mabula Game lodge. He stayed there for three years, working as a senior field guide. He was then appointed as head guide at SANParks’ Marakele National Park, where he was employed for more than 10 years. In 2018, he worked as an international wildlife TV presenter for a multimedia company, Wild Earth, in conjunction with National Geographic. He also worked as a producer for SABC television. During this period, he was also involved in Wild Earth’s Schools Enrichment programme, visiting local schools in Dixie and sharing his knowledge and love of the African bush. His immense experience saw him launch “Sydney’s African Wild Safaris” over the past year. The initiative entails custom-designed, privately guided safaris for domestic and international guests, escorting school excursions into national parks and various motivational-speaking engagements. Central to what he believes he is going to achieve is to facilitate education programmes that evolve around environmental problems. For the 12 years he has been in the industry, Mikosi has thus far received 18 industry awards, at both provincial and national level.  Sydney Fhumulani Mikosi, photographed with his award.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za