News - Date: 04 April 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 786 The traditional leader at Tshino Ha-Nesengani in Vuwani has been put in an awkward position and given an ultimatum to choose between a family said to be harbouring illegal Zimbabweans and the whole community. This was during a peaceful protest held by the community on Thursday. During the march, the protestors, who came in their hundreds and carried placards denouncing illegal Zimbabweans and those harbouring them, marched from the local sports grounds to the chief's place where they handed over a memorandum of their demands. The memo was received by Chief Mushaisano Alex Nesengani, who promised to take it to his seniors and assured residents of a speedy response. Community leader Alex Ndou said the community was tired of the escalation of crime in the area, which he said the community blamed on foreigners, who are mostly Zimbabweans. "We have had many cases, among them rapes, robberies, violent attacks on community members and murders, and in almost all cases Zimbabweans were the culprits. We no longer want them here and they must vacate this area,” he said. He also mentioned that in two weeks “…nine people have been attacked and one is in ICU." Ndou further indicated that they had decided to approach the chief, who is the owner of the land, and urged him to act against a local businessman who they say was harbouring illegal Zimbabweans on his farm. "The chief has to choose between his whole community and one family that is harbouring crime, and we hope he will take a wise decision and expel the family as residents are demanding," said Ndou. This is not the first time that residents protested over the presence of illegal Zimbabweans in their village. A fortnight ago, eight properties that were occupied by Zimbabweans were burnt to the ground. Two residents have been arrested in connection with the violent protest.  Community leaders hand over a memorandum of grievances to the local traditional leader at Tshino. Protestors wave placards while marching to the local chief's place at Tshino. Community leaders address the residents under the watchful eye of the police. Chief Alex Nesengani addresses the residents.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: