News - Date: 07 April 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 664 Masala “Mageda” Ramashia (24), the talented young soccer player from Maebane, was laid to rest at the Kutama Ha-Maebane cemetery last Friday. Ramashia died on Sunday, March 23, after he was stabbed to death. He played for Makhitha Runga Birds, who campaign in the Safa Vhembe MMK league. The violent death of Ramashia sent shockwaves through the community and caused widespread unrest. Following his death, roads leading to Midoroni and Maebane were sporadically barricaded with rocks, scrap metal, dustbins and pieces of wood and trees. Tyres were also set alight to block access to some areas. Mageda was allegedly killed by someone who is wanted in connection with various other cases by the police. An eyewitness alleges that the suspect found Mageda and chased him until he fell, after which he stabbed him to death. A community member said that the suspect was giving the community sleepless nights because of his crime sprees. Last Monday, angry community members of Midoroni and Maebane went to the house of the suspect and set it alight because they felt that the police were reluctant to arrest the man. The following day, the community also started blocking the R522 main road between Maebane and Midoroni. A soccer guru, Mr Africa Monyeleote, expressed his condolences to the grieving family. “Ramashia’s death is not only a loss to his family, but to the whole community and the soccer family as a whole. It is sad that he passed away while he still had a lot to contribute to football,” Monyeleote said.  The deceased's mother, Anna Ramashia. Players carry the coffin of the late Ramashia.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za