News - Date: 27 April 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 269 A resident of Tshikota township, Ms Joyce Madala, is fed-up with the Vhembe District Municipality, who seems to have been unable to solve her sewage problem for more than six years. Ms Madala contacted the Limpopo Mirror about two months ago, complaining about the blocked sewer, which causes her home to be flooded by stinking water. Whenever the family step into the kitchen to cook a meal, they have to tiptoe on a slippery floor, filled with faeces. The family members have not been able to enjoy their food because of the smell. “Everywhere in the yard there is sewage. We miss the fresh air. Our doors and windows are always closed,” she said. She also complained about the flies that are all over the place. Visitors are too scared to drop by, fearing disease. Madala said that she had reported the matter to the municipality on several occasions, without any success. She also sent a letter to the municipality, complaining about the blocked sewer. “The municipality keeps fixing it, but two weeks later, it bursts again. I tried talking to the councillor to get his help to fix this mess, but nothing works. We have to spread blankets in front of the kitchen door and the zinc outside the door to prevent the sewage from coming into the rest of the house. Our furniture is ruined. I’ve had to replace my kitchen cupboard and replace the wardrobe. My house has become a complete health hazard, with faeces and toilet paper floating all over. I need a solution immediately because I cannot live like this anymore,” she said. When the Vhembe District Municipality’s spokesperson, Mr Matodzi Ralushai, was contacted about two months ago, he confirmed that the family had been complaining about the blocked sewer. “If the facts are correct and the matter was reported for years, it is shocking that people have to live under such conditions. The municipality would like to apologise for such humiliation. A team will urgently attend to the matter and ensure a lasting solution,” Ralushai said. When we followed up with Ralushai later, he said that when the municipal workers had arrived at the house they had found the gate closed with no one there. Madala denied that she had not been available and said that she had not seen any workers arriving at her house to fix the sewage. When Mr Ralushai was contacted again, he said that they were going to send out a private company to fix the blocked sewer. When Ms Madala was contacted last week to find out whether the problems had been addressed, she said she was still waiting for them to arrive.  Ms Joyce Madala cleans up the sewage.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za