News - Date: 20 April 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 183 The 16-year-old Lusiba Sibawu was crowned Miss Face of Matatshe 2019 at Thohoyandou Town Hall two weeks ago.

The public choice award was won by Orifha Nendalani, Tshedza Mudau is the first princess, Faith Chauke the second princess and Ntanganedzeni Nelushi is Miss Confidence.

An ecstatic Sibawu said that she felt delighted and overwhelmed and to be the winner was an honour that she would treasure forever. Miss Face of Matatshe is her first title and now she is craving for more titles. "I aspire to participate in Miss International, Miss South Africa and Miss World," she said.

She said that she loved modelling because it boosted her confidence. "Modelling improves my self-esteem and I am able to raise funds for charity, so that I can change some kids' lives. I love helping the needy and people living with disabilities," she add.

Lusiba is a Grade 11 learner at Gwamasenga Secondary School and as winner she received a gift bag with a make-up set and a free photoshoot.

The founder of the pageant, Pfano Patricia Luthodo (18) from Matatshe, said that the purpose of the pageant was to inspire young people who wanted to join the modelling industry. "We want to tell people that being a model is not that you must be beautiful. Being a model is all about creating your legacy and to embrace yourself and have some confidence and be ambitious," she said. She is a Grade 12 student at Tshivhase Secondary School. Lusiba Sibawu was crowned Miss Face of Matatshe 2019. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: