News - Date: 27 April 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 462 The unhappy life of a 25-year unemployed woman at Mapate outside changed for the better after receiving a gift she will never forget. Ms Azwimpheleli Mamilasigidi, the mother of two children, lost everything in a mysterious fire that devoured her house in January this year. This became history when she received the best Easter gift, which has changed her life for the better. Comedian and philanthropic businessman Livhuwani Madadzhe, popularly known as Captain SABC Livhu, was moved after hearing of the incident. He, together with his friends, collected funds and built the poor woman a decent house. The house was officially handed to her during an event held at the village on Thursday. In handing over the keys to the ecstatic woman, SABC Livhu said they had heard of the incident and gone to assess the situation. "We were very touched to see the house she was staying in razed to the ground. After an assessment, we felt the chances of her rebuilding the house was almost nil as she was not working.” He said that they were very proud to have changed her life for the better. The ecstatic Mamilasigidi said she had saved money for a long time to rebuild the burnt-down house. "I was away when I received a call that my house was on fire. I rushed back home, only to find a shell of what used to be my house. Everything that was inside was burnt and we were only left with the clothing we were wearing.” She added that life had not been good since as they had to squat with relatives, which was a burden to others. We are very happy that these Good Samaritans had come to our rescue," she said. Apart from SABC Livhu, the other sponsors of the project are  Sithagu Architects, Monate Chicken and Steak, Terms 911 Ambulance, Khanoni Restaurant, Bomo Photographic Studios and Colana Still Water.  During the handover of the new house at Mapate is SABC Livhu, his partners and Mamilasigidi.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: