News - Date: 29 April 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 250 The New African Apostolic Church under archbishop Peter Rabali, one of the fastest-growing African churches in South Africa, celebrated its five years of existence last weekend. The celebration was attended by many people from all walks of life and thousands of church members. It was held at a farm outside Louis Trichardt. With congregants in their different uniforms and the beating of drums and congregants showing their unique dancing skills, the mood was one of joy and celebration. The congregation gathered from Saturday and the highlight was on Saturday when many new members were baptized. The church's national chairperson, Mr Tshimangadzo Ramasunzi, said the church had experienced a lot of grace over the years that saw the church achieving tremendous growth. "We are still young, but God has been with us amidst challenges. In the five years of our existence, we have managed to penetrate many parts of the country and our aim is to reach out to all parts of the country and Africa.” He added that they were very thankful that they had managed to finish building their headquarters at Ha Rabali. During the event, Cllr Jeanette Matumba of the Vhembe District Municipality said the government needed prayers and support from the church “in order to run programmes and service our people properly”. In his message, the founder of the church, Archbishop Peter Rabali, called on the church and the country to pray for peace in the forthcoming national elections. "We are from a very bad past and here we are today in a democratic country. Let’s defend this democracy, and one way of doing so is by voting in the coming elections, and we must do it peacefully.” Rabali further urged politicians to conduct their campaigns in a peaceful way and to allow the electorate to vote freely for the party of their choice.    The leadership of the church and guests photographed with the celebration cake. From left to right are Vhembe ANC regional secretary Adv Anderson Mudunungu, Mma Archbishop Mmabatho Rabali, Archbishop Peter Rabali and Cllr Jeanette Matumba. Church founder Archbishop Peter Rabali during the closing session of the celebrations  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: