News - Date: 13 April 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 708 Angry community members of Maebane and Midoroni protested outside the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court last Friday, demanding that the court not grant bail to a murder suspect. The suspect, Ambani Ramahala (24), had been evading the police for almost two weeks. He had allegedly stabbed and killed the 24-year-old Masala “Mageda” Ramashia, a soccer star from Makhitha Runga Birds, a fortnight ago.  Ramahala handed himself over to the police last Wednesday. He appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court last Friday. The demonstrators at the court demanded that the suspect be removed from their community. They also demanded that the court be harsh on the suspect and not grant him bail as they regarded him as a danger to the community. One of the protesters said that the suspect was giving the community sleepless night because of his alleged crime sprees. He said that the suspect was wanted in connection with various other cases by the police and had been on the run since the death of Mageda. The suspect allegedly found Mageda and chased him until he fell, after which he stabbed him to death. Shortly after the death of Mageda, angry community members of Midoroni and Maebane went to the house of the suspect and set it alight because they felt that the police were reluctant to arrest the man. The following day, the community also started blocking the R522 main road between Maebane and Midoroni. Representing the community members who were picketing, Mr Alugumi Muofhe said that they would oppose bail. “We have had enough of endless, brutal and senseless murders within our communities,” he added. “Our young ones do not deserve to die like rats.” He added that they had decided to march to show society that they were saying no to the killing of community members. “We went there to make a statement that all killers belong in prison. We abide by the law, which dictates that one remains innocent until proven otherwise by a court of law,” he added. “We do not want more people to die under mysterious circumstances. If these people are granted bail, they might continue with their murderous spree. Let them be locked up forever,” he said. He said the community did not want to see the suspects again in the village as the community felt that they might continue with their cruel deeds. “We need the justice system to make sure that this man does not get bail,” an unhappy Muofhe said. The case was postponed to 29 May for a bail application.  The suspect, Ambani Ramahala.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za