News - Date: 06 April 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 140 The Madimbo Thusong Service Centre in Ward 8 of Musina Local Municipality is one of the best-performing walk-in centres in Limpopo. During the current financial year, ending in June 2019, more than 50 000 community members were successfully provided with services by the municipality and various sector departments that are housed there. This was revealed during the Musina Municipality’s mayoral imbizo that took place at Matshena village last week Friday. Matshena village falls under Ward 8 of Musina and is one of the more than 50 villages that were incorporated from the now-defunct Mutale Municipality. Musina’s acting mayor, Cllr Jeremia Khunwana, said during the imbizo that in a move to forge good working relationships, the municipality hosted service-delivery interaction sessions with community members and stakeholders timeously. He said the political and management teams of the municipality visited all the areas to compile reports on people’s complaints and compliments. “It is good that we keep on receiving positive feedback from members of the community. Where there are gaps, we make sure that they are filled as urgently as possible. This also helps us to address service-delivery backlogs effectively by involving the affected community members and stakeholders.” He said the invitation to government departments and stakeholders to the imbizo clearly demonstrated that the municipality prioritized partnerships to enhance service delivery. He added that issues raised by the community that were directly linked to the municipality would be attended to urgently. “Those which are not our competency will be forwarded to the relevant departments and stakeholders for attention,” he concluded.  A community member raises a point during the Musina Municipality's mayoral imbizo at Matshena village last week. Members of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) conduct a drill during the Musina Municipality's mayoral imbizo at Matshena village.  Email: