News - Date: 01 April 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 895 The Thulamela Local Municipality said it was working around the clock to make sure that Thohoyandou became a city as part of Vision 2030. In preparation of that vision, the municipality is upgrading a road from Khoroni Hotel to the University of Venda’s current main gate. According to Ms MH Maluleke, the manager for roads at the municipality, the road from Khoroni to Univen will be widened and will include a dual carriage way, so that traffic can flow freely. Maluleke said the upgrading of the road would alleviate traffic congestion, especially during peak hours. The bridge on the western side of the road will also be upgraded. The project had already started in January this year and is scheduled to be completed at the end of July next year. The second phase of the project will be on the western side of the university, where the gravel road will be upgraded to a tar road. This road will be from the university gate to the road that comes from the Shayandima industrial area. Streets lights will also be installed along the road. The third phase of the project will be done at Muledane, Block J. Here the robots will be removed and replaced with a traffic circle. This circle will link with a tar road that will be constructed by Univen, leading to the campus. The construction of the traffic circle will run concurrently with the tar road that will be constructed by the university, so that they can be completed at the same time. A budget of R100 million has been allocated for this three-phase project. Maluleke said the upgrading of the three roads would be done to reduce traffic volume on the roads and to support the university since it was situated in the municipality. Another project, which is already under way, is linking a road from the Shayandima robots to Muledane. The project started in January and it is expected to be completed in November next year. A budget of R105 million has been allocated for this project.  Ms MH Maluleke, manager for roads, Thulamela Local Municipality.  Email: