News - Date: 11 April 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 758 After many years of not having a formal leader, the community of Madonsi Malamulele in the Collins Chabane municipality finally had a chief installed in the village on Friday. Hosi Evans Hlungwani Madonsi was installed as chief, taking over the leadership after the passing of his late father. The installation took place at the Mdanisi Primary School, preceded by protests during the week, with a rival family group blockading the gates of the local traditional offices. Elderly people with placards also protested at the gate a few days before the installation. Representing the royal family, Mr Samson Hlungwani, uncle of the new chief, told the history of the chieftainship and showed why Evans Wisani Hlungwani was the rightful heir to the position. Messages of support also came from the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa and the Vatsonga Machangana Royal Unity Forum. Representing Contralesa, Hosi Aaron Mahumani urged the new leader to work with all stakeholders for the development of the community. Hosi Lwandlamuni Nwamitwa, on behalf of the Vatsonga Machangana Forum, urged the community to support their leader, saying only one person could occupy the position. Coghsta MEC Jerry Ndou said the programmes of the government could not materialise without the cooperation of traditional leaders. “Be a chief who will develop your community and the country of South Africa with your knowledge,” said Ndou. Hosi Madonsi told his subjects that he would work together with all the structures in the community and the department for development in their area.  Minister of Sport and Recreation Ms Thokozile Xasa (left), Coghsta MEC Jerry Ndou, Collins Chabani Municipality's mayor, Cllr Moses Maluleke, and Ms Faith Chauke pose with Chief Wisani Hlungwani Madonsi during the installation.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: