News - Date: 15 April 2019 Written by: Phathutshedzo Luvhengo / Viewed: 1044 As of June last year, the Makhado Municipality had a total number of 700 employees and 134 vacant positions. The wage bill for both employees and councillors amounted to R282,58 million in the 2017/18 financial year. These are some of the figures from the summarised annual performance report of the municipality’s 2017/18 financial year. During the year, the municipality implemented a total of 10 capital projects, most of which had been the construction of roads. Only four projects were completed, namely Gombita Phase 1, Valdezia Phase 1, Tshirolwe Phase 1 and Tshikwarani Phase 1. The municipality had spent 100% of its Municipal Infrastructure Grants (MIG) with the initial approved budget of R91 170 000. This budget was later adjusted to R106 160 000 and eventually brought the actual expenditure to a total of R106 169 000. The report states that the municipality is currently busy with 10 capital projects that are at various stages of completion in the 2018/19 financial year. “It is anticipated that the majority of these projects, when completed, will improve access to many villages,” reads the report. The report further states that, although water provision is the responsibility of the Vhembe District Municipality, it remains one of the main challenges. The disruption and shortage of water supply in residential areas and the lack of bulk supply for residential and industrial development continues to be a hurdle for this municipality. The report states that the budget has been allocated during the 2018/19 financial year to purchase required machinery, since a shortage of graders for internal street grading is a big challenge. According to the report, the municipality is in the process of developing and approving a revenue-enhancement strategy. Some of the revenue-enhancement initiatives include the installation of pre-paid electricity meters. The municipality also wants to intensify credit control mechanisms, speed up the response in resolving disputed accounts and address the responsible sale of municipal land for development. The report indicates that the municipality does not have any outstanding statutory financial obligation as at the end of the first quarter of the 2018/19 financial year. “The Municipality is able to pay retentions as and when the projects are successfully completed and after the Defects Liability Period. The balance of the retention as at the end of the previous financial year was R 21 million.” The 2017/18 annual performance report was delivered by the municipality’s mayor, Cllr Samuel Munyai, during the Municipal Public Account Committee (MPAC) public participation meeting that was held at Waterval last month and subsequently at the Makhado Show Grounds two weeks ago.  The mayor of Makhado Local Municipality, Cllr Samuel Munyai, delivers the annual performance report during the MPAC public participation meeting. Photo supplied.  Email: