News - Date: 13 April 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 311 The local traditional leader at Tshino in the Vuwani area, Chief Tshiwela Mulungwa, has urged staff at the Tshino Clinic to continue providing good service to his community. Mulungwa was addressing staff at the clinic during a function to acknowledge the good work the nurses were doing at the clinic. During the occasion, an initiative by the Tshino Clinic Committee, 13 new nurses were awarded certificates. For a long time, the clinic has been in the news for failing to provide proper service to the disadvantaged rural community during the night. An outcry by the community led to the transfer of the previous nursing staff, but the service has changed considerably after the arrival of the new staff. Tshino Clinic Committee chairperson Mr Ndivhaleni Munyai said that they felt they would not be doing justice by keeping quiet as if nothing good was happening at their clinic. “This is a way of motivating staff here, and we have come up with a programme to empower the staff. Soon we will be offering basic computer literacy courses for home-based carers and we will gather in this fashion from time to time and celebrate excellence. We are also doing this to acknowledge the good work the new nurses are doing here.” Speaking at the function, Chief Tshiwela Mulungwa said they were satisfied with the service the staff were rendering in his community. "We are very happy as a community. We have witnessed a tremendous improvement in services since you arrived in this community. We had problems here where the patients had to wait until the following day to be treated, but this has changed completely,” he said.  Handing over a certificate to the hardworking  Ms Livhuwani Madima (third from left) is Chief Tshiwela Muungulwa. Sharing the limelight are, from left to right, Tshino clinic committee member Mr Ndivhaleni Munyai, Mr Takalani Mbedzi (clinic committee secretary), Ms Violet Mhangani (local area manager Dept of Health in Vhembe) and Cllr Tshisamphiri Balibali. Dedicated nursing staff members who received acknowledgement. Also in the picture are members of the clinic committee, the ward councillor and the traditional leader. Home-based carers who were described as doing a good job at the clinic and in the community were photographed during the function.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: