News - Date: 08 April 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 308 The health department in Vhembe has been given a major boost, following the handing over of six ambulances to beef up the existing fleet. The handover was officiated by Limpopo health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba, who was accompanied by senior health officials from the province and Vhembe District. The event was attended by emergency staff members, community members, Thulamela Mayor Mushoni Tshifhango, Tshilidzini hospital management and the local senior traditional leader, Thovhele Thivhulawi Makumbane. It took place at the Tshilidzini Hospital grounds last Friday morning. Ramathuba indicated that the ambulances were part of a consignment of 50 ambulances procured by her department this year. She added that the department would be buying 50 ambulances each year until they were satisfied that they had enough to cater for the whole province. She discouraged communities from rushing to hospitals for minor ailments and said that residents should make clinics their first stop as they were also within their reach at villages. "These ambulances belong to the community of Vhembe. Please take care of them and do not vandalize them or misuse them, and together we will deliver better health care," she said. Mr Vonani Mkhombo of the Nehawu Vhembe regional executive said that, inasmuch as they appreciated the new ambulances, they were calling on the MEC to hire cleaners at hospitals. The local traditional leader, Thovhele Makumbane, commended the MEC for the ambulances, saying they would be of much help and that the community would benefit immensely. "We are very happy as the community for the service we are getting here at this hospital and the commitment by the department that has put the hospital on a renewal programme," said Makumbane.  MEC Phophi Ramathuba cuts a ribbon marking the official handover of the ambulances. With her are Thovhele Thivhulawi Makumbane and Thulamela Mayor Mushoni Tshifhango,   Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: