News - Date: 27 April 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 302 Miss Tshifhiwa Mammburu was crowned Miss Zwithu Zwintha 2019 at a glitzy event held at the Vleifontein Hall on Saturday.

Speaking to Limpopo Mirror, Mammburu said that she felt very honoured to be crowned the queen because she had worked tirelessly to ensure that she won. "I feel very happy about winning this event as the competition was tough. I learnt not to limit myself, because limitations live only in our minds. If we use our imaginations and work hard, our possibilities can be limitless. I believe only the sky is the limit," she added.

She walked away with the sash, the crown, a gift bag, Zwithu Zwi Ntha T-shirt, body products, R1 000 cash, a hair bundle, vintage clothes, a fully paid trip to a lodge and a photoshoot. The first princess, Palesa Mushayathoni, received R300 cash, and second princess Thovhedzo Netshimbolimbo received R200 cash. Milky Ramarumo was Miss Confidence and Denga Muremela Miss Personality.

The 24-year-old from Ha-Ramantsha is not new to winning titles in beauty contests. "I have won 22 titles before. Entering this pageant was the best decision I took, because I enjoyed every moment of being on stage. Everything was well organized, and all thanks to Thendo Nkuna," she said.

The founder of Zwithu Zwintha Media, Thendo Nkuna, said that they saw a lack of beauty pageant opportunities, which resulted in girls’ lacking confidence. "We want to boost girls to recognize the power within themselves, so they can have high confidence. We want to keep the young or youth from the street and create a good entertainment for them and to help the less fortunate," she said. "We have young people who are very smart and talented, so we want to provide a platform for them."  The winners are, from left to right, Denga Muremela, Thovhedzo Netshimbolimbo, Tshifhiwa Mammburu and Palesa Mushayathoni. Photo supplied .  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: