News - Date: 06 April 2019 Written by: Phathutshedzo Luvhengo / Viewed: 239 Several residents from Vuwani area will not participate in this year’s national and provincial elections unless the government moves them back to the control of the Makhado Local Municipality. This is according to the Pro-Makhado Task Team’s deputy chairperson, Mr Arnold Mulaudzi. Talking during a special broadcast of Phalaphala FM’s current affairs show, Ndevhetsini, in Thohoyandou last Friday evening, Mulaudzi said political organisations wanted to use people. “I have had all the political organisations within the panel pleading with us to go and vote. Reality is that you want to use us – you are not worried about [the] Vuwani people,” he said. Mulaudzi said for the past three years no one had cared, but now that it was election time, everyone was behaving as if they were worried. “Pro-Makhado is apolitical, our constituency is the people. That is why we run our affairs under the leadership of traditional leaders,” he said. “Residents want to remain in Makhado, and they won’t participate in any activity. We are trying, by all means, to make sure that those elections are not held in our region since we took a decision that we will only participate in any government activity until such time when the government takes us back to Makhado,” he said. Vhembe ANC spokesperson Tshifhiwa Dali conceded that they had encountered some of the service delivery challenges in the area that needed to be rectified. “We are also accepting that we failed in some instances, but from our ruling experience, we are going to improve,” he said. Limpopo MEC for Corporative Governance, Human Settlement and Traditional Affairs Mr Jerry Ndou said they would continue to communicate and engage with Vuwani residents to find an amicable solution to this problem. “Where there is lack of services, we will liaise with provincial departments and see how we work with them to take service to the people,” he said. Mr Jeffrey Tshibvumo of the Democratic Alliance claimed Vhembe deserved to have more local municipalities, compared to Waterberg District Municipality. “What is lacking here is the political will from the ruling party. Vuwani people deserve their own municipality without scrapping any municipality like what they did with Mutale,” he said.   Email: