News - Date: 20 April 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 463 Hundreds of church members from five different congregations at Tshidimbini and surrounding villages gathered at the Tshidimbini Lutheran Church under Mavhola Parish to celebrate Palm Sunday. The congregants from Vondwe Presbyterian, Khubvi Lutheran Church, Mukula Lutheran Church, Salvation Army Tshidimbini and Tshidimbini Lutheran Church marched and waved branches. They were led by a neatly clothed donkey from the Matatshe Cross to Tshidimbini Lutheran Church. They also sang hymns during the march. Mr Nditsheni Nkhumeleni, chairperson of the Tshidimbini Lutheran Church and one of the coordinators of the event said that Palm Sunday had become an annual and very important day on the church calendar. “We are now approaching Easter, and this is the beginning of the Holy Week for Christians. This symbolizes the triumphant entry of Jesus, the Prince of Peace, into Jerusalem. The donkey was used to lead the procession, but no one can ride on it as no one is equal to Jesus.” The local traditional leader, Chief Mukhesi Tshivhase, also attended the event. Speaking during the event, Rev (Dr) Robert Munthali of the Uniting Presbyterian Church in Southern Africa’s Goldville Mission congregation called on churches and the community to pray for peace during the forthcoming elections. Munthali said the community was becoming concerned about safety, especially regarding the elections. “Already we have witnessed incidents where people were killed because of deviating political views. Jesus is the Prince of Peace and let us all follow in his footsteps and go out in our numbers and vote for the party of our choices without any fear. Politicians should display restraint and accommodate each other for the sake of peace in our country,” he said.  Marching to the church, led by a neatly dressed donkey, are congregants from diffrent churches during the Palm Sunday celebration at Tshidimbini. Pastors with Chief Mukhesi Tshivhase (standing second from left) and the chief's entourage squatting as a way of showing respect during the event.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: