News - Date: 14 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1613 Several unemployed people in the Tshivhase Kingdom in Limpopo could soon say goodbye to poverty and gain meaningful employment. The kingdom, under the stewardship of senior traditional leader Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase, has initiated committees that will facilitate development in the area. Two projects have already been completed and hundreds of formerly unemployed people will be absorbed in those projects. The projects will be up and running before the end of this month. Speaking during a recent progress meeting held at Mukumbani Luaname outside Thohoyandou, Tshivhase said he was worried that, with the vast resources in his area, which has rich soil for agriculture, prospects of minerals and as a tourism destination, among others, some people were still swimming in a pool of poverty and unemployment. "As the leadership we could not just sit down and rest, pretending as if we see nothing wrong. That is the reason we stood up and sought ways on how we could improve the lives of our people.” He said that they had initiated different committees that would be platforms for development and service delivery and that they had identified seven platforms. These are: good governance, boundaries and disputes, education, health and social development, legal, safety and security committee, agriculture, mining and environmental affairs, arts and culture, communication, information and foreign affairs and the finance and youth committee. “All these committees are chaired by capable leaders and already they are coming with bright ideas that will benefit all our people,” he said. Tshivhase further said they already had two tourism projects funded by the government at Thathe Vondo and Tshirolwe that were completed and would be up and running soon. "Many jobs will be created here. With the Thathe project, we are talking about more than 90 people who will be absorbed, and many more at the Tshirolwe project.”  Tshivhase Kindom's leader, Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase (seated), his committees and traditional leaders during the meeting.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: