News - Date: 25 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 607 The music of the late legendary disco musician and producer, Dan Tshanda, reverberated in church, his home at Chiawelo and the Westpark Cemetery during his funeral last Friday. The burial was attended by government officials, among them Gauteng Arts and Culture MEC Faith Mazibuko, an entourage from the Limpopo government, artists from Vhembe and artists who worked with the late Tshanda at the Dalom Stable. Pantsulas from Botswana and Namibia, clad in their own unique clothing, came in their numbers to give their idol a warm send-off. Phalaphala FM, which launched Tshanda's career, was represented by programme manager Ms Sharon Ravele. Speakers during the funeral paid glowing tribute to the late iconic musician who helped launch the careers of many. Paying tribute to the Peacock hitmaker, legendary musician Yvonne Chaka Chaka told mourners that the government tended to wait for artists to die and then pretended they love them. "Government, please do not love us when we are dead; please empower us while we are still alive," she said. She also lashed out at artists not to blame the government for their financial woes and urged them to by invest their money wisely. Tshanda's right-hand man, Msiza Madiba, said the Dalom Music Stable was devastated by Tshanda’s death. He said that even after he had left the group to pursue a solo career, Dan had always told him that, should he feel like coming back to the stable, he was always welcomed at Dalom Stable. Tshanda passed away a fortnight ago, aged 54, after suffering heart failure.  Pantsulas from Botswana carry Dan Tshanda's casket to the church. The late musician's children pay their last respects to their father during the funeral.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: