News - Date: 24 January 2019 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 502 The police said on Wednesday no evidence has been found to link the Fidelity guard who was shot and killed in Louis Trichardt last Tuesday and the two Fidelity guards who were arrested a day later after the police had dug up more than R2,6 million in their backyards. The 32-year-old Mr Tshimangadzo Shane Museisi from Musethe Village was shot multiple times and killed on 15 January at around 00:30. At the time of his death, he was sitting inside his Fidelity vehicle, talking to a lady friend. According to provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo, a man parked his white bakkie some distance away and walked to Museisi. The man asked for Museisi’s vehicle keys and when Museisi refused, he was shot. The suspect fled the scene without taking anything and the woman was not injured. A day later, the police arrested two men, aged 30 and 40 respectively, after more than R2,6 million was found buried in their backyards. The first suspect was arrested at Ravele Riverside in the Tshilwavhusiku policing area and his accomplice was later arrested at Elim Mabedengwa in the Waterval policing precinct. The police confirmed that the two men were in the employ of Fidelity cash-in-transit company in Louis Trichardt. They were responsible for collecting cash from various places. “…instead of making deposits, they then took the money. One of the suspects had already bought a double-cab vehicle. The vehicle was also confiscated,” said Mojapelo. Immediately after the two men’s arrest, rumours started circulating that Museisi had been “silenced” because he had tipped off the police about the hidden R2,6 million by his colleagues. Mojapelo cautioned against these rumours against such rumours.  “We have not yet established the motive behind the killing and no arrest has been made in that regard. Once an arrest has been made, we can determine the motive behind the killing ... Going forward, the police are investigating the murder and no link has been established yet between the man who was shot and the two Fidelity guards who were arrested,” said Mojapelo. He added that since the arrest of the two Fidelity guards, the HAWKS had taken over that investigation while the police continued to investigate Museisi’s murder. “A case of murder has been opened for investigation and anyone with information is requested to contact the nearest police or call the toll-free number 0860010111,” said Mojapelo. In the meantime, the two arrested Fidelity guards appeared in court in Louis Trichardt last week. Rofhiwa Luvhimbi (30) and Thomas Maluleke (40) were remanded in custody until 24 January for further police investigations. “The money that was reported stolen is more than R3 million, but the police could only recover R2.6 million,” said Mojapelo.  Some of the cash was found stashed in holes in ice cream containers and refuse bags. Photo: Limpopo SAPS. Buckets full of money, totalling around R2,6 million, were recovered by the police. Photo: Limpopo SAPS.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za