News - Date: 25 January 2019 Written by: Phathutshedzo Luvhengo / Viewed: 384 The death of a political leader, Mashudu Simon Radamba, has left a huge void in his community and shocked various structures in the Vhembe region. A member of the Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC), Radamba suddenly passed away at his home village Tshituni Tshantha on Sunday. According to his younger brother, Mr Tshifhiwa Radamba, the cause of his death is not known. Radamba died at the age of 60, leaving behind his eight children and a wife. He had served in various structures of his organization for a period of 30 years. At the time of his passing, he was a member of the Siloam Hospital Board and the chairperson of the Victim Empowerment Programme (VEP) at Mphephu police station in Dzanani. Mr Jappe Ligege, who is also a member of the PAC, described Mr Radamba as someone who was committed to unifying the organization and did not allow factional battles to be at the midst of the organization. Ligege said even Vhamusanda at Tshituni Tshantha relied on Radamba for his advice at the royal council, especially when there were problems that needed to be solved in the village. “He was a humble person dedicated to serving the community and every individual within the region,” he said. The deceased’s only brother, Tshifhiwa, said that the death of Radamba left a huge void. He said his brother was a loving person committed to leading and helping others from home to various organizations and his community. Radamba served in the Makhado Local Municipality as a member of the council for two terms and he also formed part of the national committee on land and agriculture. He worked at the Department of Agriculture from 1983 to 2014. His memorial service will be held at High Grace Church in Biaba today (Friday) from 12:00, with various delegates from the government and PAC expected to attend. The deceased will then be buried on Saturday at his home village, Tshituni Tshantha. The funeral service is expected to commence at 6:00.  Mr Simon Mashudu Radamba served in various structures and was a member of the PAC for 30 years.  Email: