News - Date: 19 January 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 920 The music industry is still abuzz with Makhadzi's shocking announcement on Instagram that she was leaving Rita Dee Entertainment after abuse that went on for four years. At first people thought it was just fake news doing the rounds on social media. But once it was apparent that the post was on Makhadzi's original Instagram account, people started sympathising and empathising with Makhadzi. At the other end, Rita Dee's Facebook page contained nothing in relation with or an immediate response to Makhadzi's allegations at the time. Makhadzi wrote, in essence: “I am ready to leave everything that belongs to my management company and go. I have realised that my happiness comes first. Since 2014 [I have been] acting like I am happy with my management just to protect my relationship with my fans [to avoid a situation where people will think that] I always change management.” New contacts for booking Makhadzi were also provided on the Instagram post. However, Vhembe FM's morning show, Vhuragane, hosted Makhadzi and Rita Dee on Wednesday, so they could set the record straight. They assured the fans that they were not fighting and that their relationship was still intact. But how did the post come to Makhadzi's Instagram account? “I had put my phone down somewhere, but a person might have picked it and posted those things. It might be someone we work with, but someone we do not know. I am not the one who posted that message (on Instragram). We are not fighting either.” Rita Dee said: “The statement (post) is divisive. Luckily, I quickly communicated with Makhadzi and we realised that someone had interfered with her account. Technicians are following up on this issue.” However, on the video clip captured live on Vhuragane, fans' comments are divided along two lines: some say the fact that the relationship between Makhadzi and Rita Dee remains intact is good, while others continue to post angry and subjective comments that Makhadzi and Rita Dee had actually fought and they were trying to mend their relationship.  Makhadzi and Rita Dee shortly after the Vhuragane interview. Facebook picture.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com