News - Date: 18 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 528 Legendary veteran disco musician and producer Dan Tshanda, who died of heart failure a fortnight ago, was remembered in Vhembe, his place of birth. The man who put Tshivenda music on the national map through his hit Peacock, which he produced with his group Splash, was born at Matangari but grew up in Gauteng. He will be buried in Gauteng on Friday (today). Not to be left out, hundreds of his followers, including artists from the Vhembe Music Forum, the government, traditional leaders, the Limpopo Department of Arts, led by Mr Gezani Mabunda, and many community members gathered at the local Thohoyandou Town Hall for a memorial service in his honour, which took place last Thursday. Vhembe Music Forum chairperson Dr Roxley Masevhe said as artists they could not keep quiet as if nothing had happened after the death of the legendary music giant. He said they wanted to afford the people of Limpopo a chance to mourn and celebrate his life. "Tshanda was our torchbearer in this industry; he was one of the few left of his era. He put the Tshivenda language on the map after releasing the mammoth bit Peacock. “He made us very proud and besides producing many hits, he continued helping other artists who also became stars. We will miss his excellence, dedication and hard work in the industry," said Masevhe. On behalf of the Tshivhase clan, where Tshanda had his roots, Chief Luvhaivhai Tshivhase said his death was a great loss not only to his family, but the country at large. "He was a legend in his own right and my appeal is for the community to come up with ways of honouring icons by starting a hero’s acre, where all the legends will be buried. We also urge all artists to follow in Tshanda's footsteps and continue where he left off," he said. Many well-known artists performed and Tshanda's music was played throughout the service. A moment of silent was also observed in his honour.  Radio veteran Mpho Nefale (right) and other personalities dance to the music of Dan Tshanda during the memorial service of the late music veteran. Mourners who attended the memorial service at Thohoyandou on Thursday join hands as a sign of unity. Chief Luvhaivhai Tshivhase called on the community to come up with proposals to honour to fallen heroes in their community.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: