News - Date: 27 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 446 The death of two awaiting-trial prisoners at the Thohoyandou Correctional Centre at Matatshe in an alleged fire has sent shockwaves through the area and has left the families of the deceased in shock, with many questions unanswered. Vhuthuhanga Kutame (19) of Dzwerani outside Vuwani and Mashudu Maphulu (22) of Vyeboom were killed after a fire allegedly broke out at the correctional facility last Thursday at around 08:45. Information at this paper's disposal is that the two, including another inmate who was seriously injured, were sharing a cell meant for one person at the time the incident happened. A grieving Ms Tshinanne Mufamadi, mother of Vhuthuhanga Kutame, said her son had been arrested in August 2018 and granted bail of R2 000, which he could not pay. "On Thursday, I was at the nearby Mvelaphanda village when I received a call that I should come back home as there were visitors there. Before I could reach home, they came and fetched me by car.” She said that she could feel that something bad had happened to her son as many vehicles from the prison were there. “They explained the incident and I started crying. How they left, I cannot remember. I am deeply hurt, because I had thought that my son was there to be corrected and not to be killed. I had thought he would come back safely, but he came back in a coffin," she said. Mufamadi said she spoke to her son a week ago and he then pleaded with her that he had changed and was asking to be released on bail. She said he also told her that he loved her very much. She further said he promised to call her again on Thursday, the day he passed away. "We are a poor family and devastated about the whole incident. We do not even have money to bury him," she said. Vhuthuhanga Kutame's elder brother, Mr Thifhelimbilu Khangale, who had visited the prison and seen the body, said they had many more questions than answers about his brother's death. "As a family we are not convinced at all that he was killed by fire. My brother was killed, and it was made to look like it was a fire. There are many things that make us believe he was killed. This leaves us with many questions, and we are pleading with the authorities to investigate this matter thoroughly," he said. Ms Gladys Ngobeni, whose son, Mashudu Maphulu, also died in the incident, said that she was heartbroken about her son's death. “I have no reason to doubt that my son was killed in prison. I am a very poor person who relies on a pension grant and I do not have anything to bury my son. What makes me sadder is that they have made it clear that they will not help with the burial. What I will not allow to happen is for my son to be buried as a pauper," she said. Ms Tshidi Mapole, spokesperson for Correctional Services, confirmed that a fire had broken out at the prison but was shocked about the allegations by the families. “Indeed, the fire did break out at the centre and we have photographs, taken even before the bodies were taken away from the scene. It is very unfortunate for families to come up with such allegations,” she said. According to her, the other man who was injured in the fire had corroborated that a fire had been started in their cell, “and we can confirm there is no truth to the allegations". She stated that the internal investigations were completed. The Limpopo police have confirmed the incident, saying they had opened two inquest dockets and that the outcome of the investigations would reveal the cause of the fire.  The Mahulu family of Vyeboom say Correctional Services should help with the burial of their son, Mashudu. Vhukhudo Kutame of Dzwerani who died during a fire at in prison on Thursday. The Kutame family say they cannot believe their son is dead. They say Correctional Services is answerable for their son's death. The late Mashudu Maphulu, who died in a fire at the Thohoyandou Correctional Centre last week.   Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: