News - Date: 10 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 457 His journey to success started even before the schools opened for the 2018 academic year. The 18-year-old Londanani Tshikhudo of Maha in Phiphidi outside Thohoyandou started studying in December 2017 for matric and he never looked back. When the schools reopened in 2018, he was way ahead of his educators and peers. Throughout the year, the hard worker from Dimani Agricultural High School entered competitions and did extra classes where he won many awards. Today, his determination has paid off. He is one of Limpopo's high fliers in the 2018 matric results. He garnered six distinctions and excelled in physical science, where he collected maximum marks. In acknowledgement of his good results, his family and community gathered at his home to give him a warm send-off to university. Speaking during the function, his uncle, Dr Aluwani Tshikhudo, said that he used to pamper him with gifts wherever he did well at school, but on one occasion he did badly and was not given any reward. "He started working very hard and since then he has been a top performer. We are very humbled as a family.” The pastor of the Apostolic Church in Zion, pastor Lucy Mulaudzi, commended Tshikhudo for a job well done, saying he had made the church very proud. He will soon be leaving for the University of Cape Town to study mechanical engineering. He said that he set himself goals and did not wait for spoon-feeding from his educators. He urged other learners to use every available time for their studies if they were to achieve their goals.  Together in celebration with Londanani are, from left to right, Ms Elisa Tshikhudo (Londanani's grandmother), his uncle, Dr Aluwani Tshikhudo, his mother, Ms Vele Budeli, and his aunts, Mesdames Sarah Muthambi and Cebestina Dzivhani, during the ceremony to wish him farewell.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: