News - Date: 24 January 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 506 Chief Dzumbuluwani Mandiwana was recently inaugurated as the new chief of the Mandiwana area during a ceremony at Mandiwana. During the installation ceremony, Khotsimunene Vho-Japan Mphephu Ramabulana said that “the darkness of the storm had finally gone”, referring to the period spent by the community without a leader. Mphephu urged other leaders and the Mandiwana royal council to co-operate with their new leader. “The leadership role is not as easy as it looks. You will work tirelessly for your people.” He advised Mandiwana to seek help from other leaders when he needed advice. He said that community members must respect the leader and added that the chief must focus on developing the area. He also urged the community to give their support to the new chief and advised the new chief to conduct himself in an exemplary manner and not mix with the wrong people. He also added that the new chief should “not become big-headed” and warned him that he would be dethroned if he was not prepared to take instructions. The mayor of the Makhado Municipality, Cllr Samuel Munyai, encouraged the chief to carry out his duties with dignity as the leader of his clan. In response, Chief Mandiwana told the gathering that his installation marked a new beginning for the people of Mandiwana. “We need development here and we are happy that the basics like water and electricity are already here. I will follow in my father's footsteps and not let my people down," he said. He indicated that he was looking forward to working together with the community members of Mandiwana. He added that the community had to expect good things that he was planning to bring for the community in the village. “I am also going to encourage traditional dances, to restore the traditional values of the Vha-Venda people,” he outlined, adding that he was also ready to work with the police in terms of reduction of crime in the village.    Photographed during the installation are, from left to right, Ntavha Mandiwana (ndumi), Khotsimunene Vho-Japan Mphephu Ramabulana, Chief Dzumbuluwani Mandiwana, the khadzi and Cllr Samuel Munyai.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za