News - Date: 17 January 2019 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 4662 Makhado police have arrested two suspects aged 30 and 40 and recovered more than R2 million in stolen money on Wednesday evening. “The first suspect was arrested at Ravele Riverside under the Tshilwavhisikhu policing area and his accomplice was later arrested at Elim Mabedengwa in the Waterval policing precinct,” said provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo.  According to the police, a team of operatives comprising members derived from the provincial Organized Crime, Crime Intelligence, the Makhado Task Team and the Thohoyandou Tactical Response Team (TRT), was assembled to conduct a well-coordinated operation at different identified sites. This after information was received of a substantial amount of money that went missing from a cash-in-transit company in Louis Trichardt. “The operation, which commenced yesterday afternoon, proceeded through the night until this morning. It was characterized by relentless searches, probing and digging by the members at three different premises and produced positive results when cash in bank notes was recovered buried in the yards. Some of the cash was found stashed in ice cream containers and refuse bags,” said Mojepelo. The suspects, who are employed by the cash-in-transit company were responsible for collecting cash from various places. “… instead of making deposits, they then took the money. One of the suspects had already bought a double cab vehicle. The vehicle was also confiscated,” said Mojapelo. The total cash recovered amounted to R2,6 million. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant General Nneke Ledwaba also visited this operation and commended the members on conducting a well-coordinated operation that led to the arrest of the suspects and the recovery of the stolen cash. By the time of going to press, the suspects had yet to appear in the Louis Trichardt Magistrate Court on a charge of theft. Buckets full of money totalling around R2,6 million was recovered by the police. Photo: Limpopo SAPS. The operation was characterized by relentless searches, probing and digging by the members at three different premises and produced positive results when cash in bank notes was recovered buried in the yards. Photo: Limpopo SAPS. Some of the cash was found stashed in holes in ice cream containers and refuse bags. Photo: Limpopo SAPS.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za