News - Date: 27 January 2019 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 594 Being born with no hands and legs did not stop Livhuwani from trying to achieve his dreams. Livhuwani Mutsharini, from Gondeni la Ha-Mabilu outside Thohoyandou, explains that he had always had a dream of becoming a DJ. He was born in 1996 at the Chris Hani Baragwanath hospital in Gauteng, but unlike other children of his age, Livhuwani was born with a rare disease, Amelia Agenesis, that resulted in his arms’ and legs’ failing to develop. Livhuwani did not let his medical condition stand in his way of becoming a DJ and started performing at various gigs. DJ Magarini, as he is popularly known, was a smash hit at last year’s Spar music festival. He has also become a regular face at local gig line-ups. Livhuwani explained that his disability meant he had to face numerous challenges. “I recently passed my matric. I want to further my studies at a music school, but I can’t because, for me to leave home and go to another province, I will need an electronic wheelchair. Such a chair will enable me to go to school and do other things on my own, but I can’t afford it.” Livhuwani went to Helen Franz Special School in Bochum where he completed his matric. He said that his dream was to become a professional DJ. He also wants to start a fund to help other disabled people like him to achieve their dream. “I don’t want them to suffer like I am doing right now. I also want to help because I know that people who are not physically challenged tend to judge us, instead of loving and helping us,” he added. Readers who want to contribute to the cost of buying an electric wheelchair can contact Livhuwani’s manager, Aubrey Miswe, on 061 451 9179.  Livhuwani Mutsharini has a dream of becoming a top DJ, but he needs an electronic wheelchair.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently  a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com