News - Date: 28 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 702 Well-known Limpopo comedian and businessman Mr Livhuwani Madadzhe might be notoriously known for allegedly faking his mother's death and burial some years ago. This time around, the man best known as SABC Livhu in entertainment circles has come up with a bright new project that will see a lot of poor learners benefitting. He, together with his friends in the entertainment industry, has teamed up with a community radio station, Vhembe FM in Thohoyandou, and will be collecting shoes for disadvantaged learners. The project was recently launched during a ceremony at Lunangwe Secondary School at Mianzwi outside Thohoyandou. About the project, SABC Livhu said it came about after he realised that many learners dropped out of school as a result of poverty. He said a similar campaign was being run by the SABC's Phalaphala FM, but that the station could not extend it generous hand to all the needy learners. "We are entertainers, but it does not end there as we are also human. We know what poverty is capable of. It destroys one's confidence in whatever one is doing. It also shatters dreams and we do not want our brothers and sisters to go this way.” He added that the campaign was their humble contribution “and we wholeheartedly thank Terms 911 Ambulance, businessman Thabelo Bvumbi, Phaipha Ratshokombo and Monate Chickens and Steak Restaurant, who did not hesitate to join us in this initiative," he said. He further said they had set themselves a target of more than 500 pairs and that already they had more than 100 pairs collected in one week. Vhembe FM’s station manager, Mr Lawrence Mashau, said the partnership they had was one of the best and that many disadvantaged learners would benefit. "We have started and ours is an all-year project. We are happy to announce that we have collected many shoes in one week. There will never be enough shoes for all disadvantaged learners, but our initiative will go a long way in lowering the number of learners without shoes," he said.  Comedian SABC Livhu (back row, fifth from left) and his friends have started a project to collect shoes for disadvantaged learners.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: