News - Date: 31 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1037 The good news of the arrest of the suspects in the murder case of well-known public servant Mr Marks Rambau turned his solemn and sombre funeral service into cheers and clapping of hands. During her speech on Saturday, transport MEC Makoma Makhurupetje announced the arrest of the suspects in the brutal murder of Rambau. Rambau, of Masia village in Vuwani, was deputy director at the Department of Transport in Polokwane at the time of his death. He disappeared for four days from his house, and it was only through the help of a security guard who witnessed his dumping and reported it to the police that he was found. His body was found partly burnt next to the Peter Mokaba Stadium. After the discovery of his body, his Jeep and Polo vehicles were also found to be missing. Rambau was buried after a memorial service held in Polokwane and another held on Friday at his home town of Vuwani. On Saturday, his colleagues, the ANC provincial leadership, parliamentarians, many community members, and Vhembe Executive Mayor Mavhungu Lerule, among others, gathered at the local Vuwani community hall to give him a dignified send-off. In her eulogy to Rambau, MEC Makoma Makhurupetje described him as a dedicated and committed public servant who served in different departments and portfolios. "Marks was a product of youth and student movements to which he dedicated his entire life. He will be remembered as one of the longest-serving official of the ANC youth league and will be sorely missed," she said. Meanwhile, Limpopo police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed that they had arrested two suspects in connection with the murder and two for possession of stolen property.  The body of the late Marks Rambau is carried from the hearse during the funeral at Vuwani. Some of the mourners during the funeral service of  Mr Marks Rambau.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: