News - Date: 31 January 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 157 The last registration weekend ahead of the 2019 elections took place throughout the country on Saturday and Sunday. In Vuwani, the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) reported a good turnout of potential voters who registered and confirmed their addresses at all the voting stations.

In a media statement, the Minister of Cooperative Governance, Settlements and Traditional Affairs (CoGSTA), Dr Zweli Mkhize, said the government was encouraged by the turnout of citizens “who came out in their numbers, registering to vote and checking their addresses and we commend all those who visited registration stations as their commitment will lead to a better future for South Africa and strengthen our democracy”. The IEC indicated that all 32 voting stations in Vuwani were open and operational for the duration of the registration weekend. No incidents of intimidation or attacks were reported, and the minister commended the leadership for prioritizing voter registration.

Mkhize urged all stakeholders to continue working together to ensure that a lasting solution was found to address the demarcation challenges in Vuwani and surrounding areas. "To this effect, all parties undertook to meet regularly to process various matters to find lasting solutions in that area. Government is committed to ensure that communities in Vuwani and surrounding areas can get an opportunity to have their issues addressed," said Mkhize.

“After the election registration weekend, there is still an opportunity for potential voters who have not yet registered to vote to do so at all IEC offices daily until the election is declared," said Mkhize.  Minister of Cooperative Governance, Settlements and Traditional Affairs (CoGSTA), Dr Zweli Mkhize. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: