News - Date: 31 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 630 Workers at the Vhembe district municipality and the community of Limpopo are still in shock, following the shooting of yet another Samwu official in Vhembe. Mr Ronald Mani, who was the deputy secretary of the organization in Limpopo, was gunned down execution style, while enjoying drinks at Itsani village last evening (Wednesday) around 20:00. It is alleged a lone gunman waited for him to go to his vehicle, which was parked next to where he was seated with friends. The hitman pumped several bullets into his body before fleeing the scene. His vehicle was also riddled with bullets. Earlier that day Mani has met with officials of the ANC and protesting municipal workers. He has previously spoken out against those who were implicated in the VBS saga and has also been very vocal in calling for the exclusion of certain officials from the activities of the Vhembe district municipality. The 50-year-old Mani is not the first to be attacked in the province. Last Thursday, another top-ranking official, Mr Timmy Tshililo Musetsho of Makwarela missed death by a whisker when an unknown assailant, who had waited for him at his home, shot him and fled the scene. He is recuperating at an unknown medical facility. Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the incident, saying that the provincial commissioner, Gen Nneke Ledwaba has established a task team to probe the incident. He said a case of murder has been opened. The premier of Limpopo, Mr Chupu Mathabatha has condemned the killing of Mani. In a media statement released this morning, the premier has urged the community not to speculate and derail police investigations, which are at the highest level. “Let us not take the law into our hands, but allow the police space to unearth whatever circumstances behind this recent spate of shootings in that region,” the Premier said.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: