News - Date: 12 January 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1214 In a tragic incident that occurred last weekend, a young man was burnt to death after he had allegedly stabbed another young man to death. The communities of Mazuwa and Vhulaudzi are still coming to terms with the unnecessary loss of lives in the two incidents. The stabbing incident took place on Friday evening and the burning to death of the suspect took place on Saturday at Phadzima. The man who was stabbed to death was identified as Mr Trevor Mukwevho (32) of Mazuwa. At this stage the reason for the killing is unknown. Some community members are now claiming that the man had been killed by an unknown man who had relationship with his girlfriend. Angry residents at Vhulaudzi went out with the police the following day (Saturday) to look for the suspect. They allegedly found him at Phadzima and chased him. He allegedly grabbed the fire-arm of a policeman and shot and wounded a community member. The injured man is still recovering in a local hospital. The suspect was then caught by members of the community and taken back to Phadzima, where a large crowd was waiting with an assortment of weapons and tyres. He was allegedly attacked and set on fire in full view of the people. "People must stop pointing fingers to each other. What we want as a family is for him to be peacefully buried, so that his spirit can rest," said Ms Girley Phaswana, mother of Mr Trevor Mukwevho. She was overwhelmed with grief. “I am saddened, and I am in a state of shock. I do not have any idea as to what could have happened,” she said. Residents say they are tired of the acts of criminality in their area. “We have had enough of crime in this area. So many people have been killed. This will send a clear message to would-be criminals that crime does not pay at all. We are relieved now that he is gone, and we believe the area will be peaceful again,” said a community member, who preferred to remain anonymous. Limpopo police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said the latest incident was a source of great concern to the police. He reiterated his special call to all members of the community to refrain from taking the law into their own hands. Whenever they come across or know the whereabouts of a suspect, or witness a person committing crime, they must conduct a citizen's arrest without harming or killing that person or they should call the police, who will come and arrest that person, Ngoepe said. He also encouraged members of the community throughout the province to support all the community-based crime-prevention initiatives and strategies, including the community policing forums, the sector policing, street committees, the rural safety and the neighbourhood watch with the sole objective of strengthening the partnership with the police. Mukwevho will be buried on Saturday at Mazuwa; the service will start at 06:00. The name of the man who was set alight was not known at the time of our going to press.  Mr Trevor Mukwevho, who was stabbed to death.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za