News - Date: 17 January 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 291 A nauseating, stinking wave of sewage at the Shayandima Cemetery has become a source of great concern. Mourners coming to bury their loved ones no longer do it with dignity as they are in a hurry to leave the cemetery because of the stench. This is after a sewage pipe burst and turned the main gate to the cemetery into a river of waste. For three weeks now, mourners who come to give their loved ones a dignified send-off must endure a filthy stench, which has caused some to avoid the graveyard part of the funeral. The spill is also just at the gate of Lurenzheni Primary School and has affected the learners adversely. Even the residents who stay near the cemetery have not been spared. A resident who wanted to remain unnamed said they had endured the worst because of the burst sewer. “It has been quite a time that we have been through this and we do not know as to when this will be repaired. We heard that a part of the pipeline has been stolen and we thought it would not take time to replace, but that was not to be.” He added that they were suffering and were afraid that their children would become sick if the matter was not resolved soon. “If the dead were to wake up, they would run straight to Vhembe District Municipality (VDM) to demand service," he said. Shayandima Sanco secretary Mr Ailwei Lithole said the matter had been reported to them by concerned members of the community. "After this came to our attention, we went and we saw for ourselves. We are now going to report the pipe to VDM, who is the water authority in the area.” The district has an acute water shortage, with many villages going without water for weeks. The VDM’s spokesperson, Mr Matodzi Ralushai, confirmed that they had received the complaint and they were busy making the necessary intervention. "We have escalated this to our technical team, and it will be fixed in no time," he said.  The sewage spill that flows in front of the cemetery and Lurenzheni Primary School that has emitted a horrific stench for weeks.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: