News - Date: 26 January 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 138 Disabled people who often suffer rejection and discrimination in the workplace find it difficult to find employment in both the government and private sectors. Old Mutual and the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development visited top disabled farmer Mr Chillyboy Rathando at Mauluma last Friday and presented R25 000 to him. The aim of the donation is to encourage him to continue to invest in agriculture. The Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development and Old Mutual have undertaken to promote careers for disabled people within the agricultural sector. The head of the Department of Rural Development, Ms Jacqueline Maisela, said that the department empowered and encouraged disabled farmers to take part in farming. “We want to assist disabled farmers, particularly those from previously disadvantaged rural areas. They must use their talents to curb the scarcity of food and the food price hike in the country,” she said. Maisela also called on disabled women to come forward to be assisted by the department. “To make sure that they participate in all aspect of agriculture, you talk of tilling the land and you talk of breeding cattle,” she said. Mr Rathando runs a farm at Mauluma village in Nzhelele where he grows vegetables and cotton. He also urged disabled people to enter the farming sector. He said that he was committed to mentoring young people and other disabled people. “I wish that disabled people can focus on farming and want to advise them to enrol at agricultural college, so that they can learn farming. I wish to teach them, because I can mentor them to grow vegetables. I am happy to help the youth, disabled people and women, so that they can become vegetables growers.” He stated that disabled people had challenges but were still able to make a living. “We must stand up and do something for ourselves and help create job opportunities for each other,” said Rathando.  Photographed during the event are, from left to right, Ms Edna Raphunga, Mr Lawrence Gabela, the provincial manager of Old Mutual, Ms Jacqueline Maisela, the HOD of the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Chilyboy Rathando and Mr Lucky Mani of Old Mutual.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za