News - Date: 21 December 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 195 The Tshilwavhusiku SAPS made a breakthrough on Sunday when they arrested four suspects in connection with the murder of a 43-year-old man. Mr Matamela “Berea” Ramala of Gogobole village in the Sinthumule area was allegedly stabbed to death in a local tavern on Sunday. Although information regarding the incident is still sketchy, a police report stated that an argument ensued between Ramala and several other men. The argument allegedly resulted in a fight, during which Matamela was stabbed in the chest under his left arm with a sharp instrument. He died at the scene of the incident. A spokesperson for the police, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said that when the police arrived at the scene, the victim was already dead. “He had a big wound under his left arm,” said Mojapelo. Mojapelo said that the incident occurred at about 02:00 on Sunday morning. A case of murder was opened, and the police followed up on the leads provided. “We managed to make a breakthrough and arrested four suspects from Gogobole,” said Mojapelo. The four suspects, two 16-year-old youths, as well as Livhuwani Ramadzivha (22) and Rudzani Begwa (24) appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. The case was postponed to 10 January 2020 for further investigation. Mojapelo urged community members to refrain from engaging in criminal activities. He also encouraged community members to continue working closely with the police. “We are now slowly winning the war against crime in the area. Together, we can,” he added. A family spokesman, Mr Matome Ramala, said the incident had caught them off-guard. “It came as a shock to us, having to lose such an intelligent person like him. We are very sad,” he said. Ramala was overwhelmed with grief and said that the family members have no idea as to what could have happened. Matamela will be buried on Sunday at Gogobole. The service will start at 06:00. The deceased, Mr Matamela Ramala (43).  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za