News - Date: 06 December 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 879 The inaugural Pens Down Annual Festival 2019 is hailed as the mother of all celebratory festivals for this year, and hundreds of people are expected to grace the event, which will be held at Mphephu Resort on Saturday (tomorrow). The event aims to celebrate all students who had sat for the year-end examinations in the province, with more focus on Grade 12s. The festival is organised and hosted by VCC Music, a company that aims to uplift and build the youth in the Vhembe District. “In African culture, when one of us has achieved something in his or her life, we gather to celebrate,” said VCC Music's managing director, Mr Tshilidzi Bobodi. “This also appears when we had worked all season long, cultivating the plantations, and then we are about to harvest - we gather friends and relatives and first celebrate. This is African, and we seem to have lost how we do things; we now forget to celebrate these days.” The superb line-up includes, among others, Master KG, Makhadzi, Sir Mckleker, Fizzy, Geenkon, Hustler Crew, Kid Money, King Tippy, Kayway, Young Rich and Team Ngamafhi. A seasonal variety of deejays will provide a marathon of entertainment. They are Vhuyie da Dj, Matt P, Mag Dee, Aydeniqee, Shaddy and Anza da Dj, DJ Rony, and Dj Shustar. VCC Music are the creators of the successful Maskot and Kidz Festival that takes place every year in September. For this event, general tickets are available at R100 each at Computicket or at the gate. VIP tickets are available at the gate for R300.  Makhadzi.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com