News - Date: 13 December 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1506 The police arrested a 45-year-old man on Saturday in connection with the brutal killing of a 31-year-old lady at Tshino village in the Vuwani area. The victim was identified as Ms Portia Ramakavhi of Ha-Mutsha. The suspect allegedly accused Ms Ramakavhi, who apparently was his girlfriend, of cheating. A heated argument started at the accused’s home and he then allegedly stabbed and chopped her with a sharp instrument. The victim died on the scene. A group of angry community members arrived and started chasing the suspect. When he was caught, the angry mob started assaulting him. The police were called and quickly arrested the suspect. He was admitted to the Tshilidzini Hospital where he was kept under police guard. According to the police, the suspect is recovering from his injuries, whereafter he will appear in the Vuwani Magistrate’s Court on a charge of murder. The family spokesperson, Mr Khaukani Mulovhedzi, said that if the suspect had to address serious problems with his girlfriend, he should have just let her separate without harming her. “It will be very hard to forget what he did,” he said. He said the incident had caught them off guard. “It came as a shock to us, having to lose a breadwinner in such a short time, when we were with her some few hours before. We are very sad,” he said. He said he was shocked by what he had seen. “Imagine blood oozing and deep head wounds on a person. It was a very scary situation,” he said. Mulovhedzi said that Ramakavhi had two young daughters, aged 10 and 6 years. The suspect is the father of the younger girl. Mulovhedzi said that the victim obtained two protection orders at the Vuwani Magistrate’s Court against the suspect. The Speaker of the Limpopo Legislature, Ms Mavhungu Luruli Ramakhanya, visited the family and expressed her disappointment in the manner that some people still used violence to solve their problems. “I have not seen something like this. This is bad and heart-breaking.” She added that several different structures and organisations were available to assist couples with problems. The chairperson of the SANCO branch at Ha-Mutsha, Mr Saddam Masutha, said the incident had come as a shock to him. “This has left the village in a state of shock. All we can do now is to make an appeal to the community not to resort to violence as a way out of their problems,” he said. Masutha called on all couples with problems to approach traditional leaders or other professional structures that could help them. The spokesperson for the police in Limpopo, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, confirmed that a murder case is being investigated. He said that the suspect had been admitted to hospital after he had been beaten by members of the community. “We would like to urge people to desist from violence in the event of misunderstandings. They should rather try to resolve their disputes in an amicable manner or opt for counselling to avoid unnecessary loss of life,” said Mojapelo. Portia will be buried on Saturday at Ha-Mutsha. The funeral service will start at 06:00. The suspect was supposed to appear in the Vuwani Magistrate's Court on Monday, but he was still in hospital. The case was postponed to 18 December in his absence. The name of the accused was also announced. He is the 45-year-old Phillip Munzhelele. Portia Ramakavhi was killed on Saturday.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za