News - Date: 12 December 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 463 The MEC for Sports, Arts and Culture in Limpopo, Thandi Moraka, promised music lovers more top-quality entertainment during the Mapungubwe 2019 Festival that will take place on Saturday at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium. Moraka said that the purpose of the heritage festival was to showcase the cultural diversity of Limpopo. According to her, Limpopo is the heartbeat of the nation when it comes to minerals and music. “This is the perfect place to set yourself free. Let loose to the biggest and best sounds from African acts across the board,” she said. “The festival provides the province with an opportunity to unify its citizens and the neighbouring countries, to celebrate the rich cultural heritage and promote tourism in the province,” she added. She said they had improved on last year’s festival and that it would be all systems go this year. “Each year comes with its challenges, but we have improved two-fold in terms of parking, security and all other measures that will make revellers feel at home,” she said. Moraka said they were expecting more than 20 000 people at the event. Well-known artist Makhadzi was confident that she was going to give music lovers more of what they wanted and establish her mark in the national music fraternity. “I believe in myself and I know that to perform in front of a big crowd is proof that I have accomplished my mission of becoming one of the best artists in the country,” said Makhadzi. Other artists who will perform at the festival are: Syleena Johnson, Ndlovu Youth Choir, Lady Zamar, Lira, Holley Ray, DJ Zinhle, Worship House, Dr Tumi, Shekhinah, Yvonne Chakachaka, Aleck Macheso, Samthing Soweto, Selaelo Selota, Candy Tsa Mandebele, Sho Madjozi, Winnie Mashaba, Lebo Sekgobela, King Monada, Master KG, DJ Da Capo, Joe Shirimane, Tella Man, Dr Thomas Chauke, Baldwin K, Pleasure, Malondolo, Muzzle, CK and Janisto, King Salama, Biodizzy, Henny C, Mopedi, Tressor, Listo SA, Lil Merry and many more. The entrance fee will be R150 and tickets are available at Computicket. The gates will open at 14:00.  Aleck Macheso. Makhadzi.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za