News - Date: 08 December 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 441 A resident of Mukondeni village, Mpho Phylicia Ramatsekisa, is a finalist in the Miss Bachelorette South Africa competition, which aims to give unmarried, mature women recognition and honour through philanthropy, fashion and beauty. It purports to be the only pageant in South Africa that focuses on women between the ages of 25 and 50 who are unmarried and independent. “When I saw Miss Bachelorette SA, I said to myself: This is the time to make a move,” she said. “I then followed as the journey advanced. Their vision to see growth in women's financial and emotional independence and creating a platform for women to form business and social relationships so they can empower each other stimulated my interest.” She had come to realise that the Miss Bachelorette South Africa was more than the pretty smiles and costumes that many people associate with beauty. “I cherish the relationships built through this journey of sisterhood,” she said. As much as she had wished to achieve her dreams, she had reached the stage where she felt so energised to face and follow her dream of becoming a model. “The new version of 'unstoppable me' saw an opportunity to stand up now and say, 'I can do it',” she said. “As a 31-year-old lady, I saw it fit to come out and be the girl I always aspired to become,” she said. “I have been an introvert for most of my life and I have watched pageant opportunities through closed doors in the past. I have missed opportunities to step up and be part of what I have always admired, simply because I had not self-actualised.” She attended Lotsha Primary School and Tshiitwa High School. She holds a B-Tech degree in environmental health from the Tshwane University of Technology. She is currently busy with her master’s degree in public relations through the University of Witwatersrand. She will hold a fundraising event as part of scoring points in the pageant on 7 December. Those interested in Mpho's journey in this pageant can follow her on Facebook (Mpho Phyllicia) and Instagram (@Mpho Phylicia). To increase her chances of winning, people can vote for her by sending an SMS, “MBSA MphoR,” to 33282.  Mpho Phylicia Ramatsekisa.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com