News - Date: 05 December 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 669 Thousands of people gathered at Tshikuwi Primary School in Nzhelele last Friday to pay their last respects to Precious Ramabulana. The 21-year-old student at Capricorn TVET College was found dead in her student accommodation at Mokomene a fortnight ago after being stabbed 52 times by an assailant. She was laid to rest at Tshirolwe. Her friend, Kulani Mogale, described Precious as a person who loved praying. "Every time when we had problems, she always encouraged us to pray. She was someone who loved studying a lot and her only wish was to change her family's situation," Mogale said. The Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth and People with Disabilities, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, said they were tired of senseless killings. "We don't want this kind of event again. We were born to lead in this country, and we must be respected," she said. The Deputy Minister of Higher Education and Training, Buti Manuela, said they were angry that Precious was victim in a series of unforgivable acts of gender-based violence. "Men should take collective responsibility, because these killings happen as a result of entrenched patriarchy in our society," Manamela said. The president of the Capricorn TVET College SRC, Mr Robert Bopape, mentioned that Precious had been loved by everyone. "She was very dedicated to her studies. Her passion for education will be missed. We have a zero tolerance of the incidents of this nature. Killing of children and women is barbaric, evil and un-African," he said.  The tombstone of Precious Ramabulana.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: