News - Date: 21 December 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 888 Ms Portia Ramakavhi (31), a resident of Mutsha, who was stabbed to death at Tshino a fortnight ago, was buried during an emotional funeral at Mutsha on Saturday. Family members and friends of Ramakavhi could not contain themselves when the coffin arrived at the cemetery and emergency workers had a busy day trying to assist those who fainted. The funeral was held amidst calls by residents to the police that they should act decisively against criminals “who have taken the village hostage, or members of the community will take the law into their hands”. Ramakavhi’s grieving uncle, Mr Khaukanani Mulovhedzi, said they were greatly saddened by the death of a beloved family member. They were, however, consoled by the support they were receiving from the community. He thanked all businesses, donors and community members who, upon hearing of the plight of the family, came to their rescue and ensured a dignified funeral. The Speaker of the Limpopo Legislature, Ms Mavhungu Lufule-Ramakhanya, said that the community had had enough of killings. “We are doing all we can to make people aware of the crimes that are happening in their midst. The police are doing their best to apprehend the criminals, but we seem to be fighting a losing battle, because people prefer to keep quiet.” She said that the nature of Portia’s death and the way she had been killed had made her put everything aside to come and be with the family and to give them support. “We are here to give a helping hand and urge you to seek strength from God, who is our Saviour,” she said. The suspect, Philip Munzhelele (45), appeared in the Vuwani Magistrate's Court on Wednesday and at the time of our going to press we were still awaiting the outcome from the court.  Young women surround the coffin of the late Portia Ramakavhi.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za