News - Date: 07 December 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 472 Hundreds of angry demonstrators, including students of TVET Capricorn College, attended Monday’s court hearing and bayed for the blood of the suspect arrested in connection with the murder of Precious Ramabulana. The suspect, Aubrey Manaka (28), made a quick appearance in the Morebeng Magistrate’s Court. Manaka is being accused of stabbing the 21-year-old student 52 times. Her body was found at Botlokwa two weeks ago. Much to the dismay of some of the demonstrators, many of whom wanted to deal with the suspect out of court, Manaka was not “handed over” to them. He will remain in custody until his next court appearance on 30 January next year. When Manaka eventually made his appearance in the court room on Monday, he looked calm and walked confidently to the dock, even though he had security chains around his legs. He was facing four charges, namely murder, theft, housebreaking and rape. Manaka was still out on parole following a previous conviction for rape when he allegedly committed the murder. On Monday, police and security officers had to close the main gate of the court building as community members wanted to enter the building to have a glance at the suspect. The marchers demanded that the suspect should never be given bail. Ms Rinae Sengane of the Rinae Sengane Foundation said: “Although we know that the law will take its own course, we are worried because murder cases of woman are increasing on a daily basis. We will never rest until we win this war against these cruel people who live on human blood.” She added that they had decided to march to show society that they said no to the killing of women. “We went there to make a statement that all killers belong in prison. We abide by the law, which dictates that one remains innocent until proven otherwise by a court of law,” she added. “If found guilty, Manaka should rot in jail, because he would be no longer welcome in our community,” she said. The Capricorn TVET College’s Student Representative Council president, Robert Bopape, said they would oppose bail by all means. “We have had enough of endless, brutal and senseless murders within our communities,” he added. “Our young ones do not deserve to die like rats.”  The suspect, Aubrey Manaka. Photo supplied.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za