News - Date: 07 February 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 367 Life came to a standstill for the residents of Tshiozwi on Saturday as scores of members of the Acts of Apostles Church, family, friends and community members gathered to pay a last tribute to one of the longest-serving religious leaders, Bishop Ndivhaleni Petrus Mammburu (80). He passed away on 26 January in the Mediclinic in Polokwane after a long illness. He was buried on the church premises. During the funeral ceremony, Mammburu was described as a pioneer, a born leader and a man of vision. According to one of the community members, he will always be remembered for his good work by his church members and the community in which he served for so many years. His son, Mr Gilbert Mammburu, said that his father was a very solemn, restrained and dignified person. Bishop Livhuwani Mulaudzi said that the whole community gathered with heavy hearts and would remember the bishop as he had been very influential in the area. Mulaudzi said that Bishop Mammburu had done many things for his community. He built the new church, he helped poor people and he assisted many communities and learners at different schools. “We want the children of Mammburu and pastors who served under him to continue helping the church to grow, as we don’t want the church to cease to operate because the founder is no more. He left us while we were still expecting many more things from him, as he was devoted to give,” said Vhakoma Vho-Daniel Mavhandu.  A relative escorts the widow, Mrs Selinah Mammburu, to the graveyard. Family and church members carry the coffin of the late bishop.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za