News - Date: 03 February 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 534 The two top matric achievers of the dysfunctional Tshiungulela Secondary school received huge cash prizes for their outstanding performances in the final matric exams. The money was donated by a former pupil, Mr Londolani Marageni of Iceburg-Trading, during an event that was held at the school a fortnight ago. Colbert Thagwana received R35 000 and Moorosi Ralidzhivha R25 000. The headmaster of Tshiungulela Secondary, Mr Frank Rathongwa, said that the ceremony was aimed at promoting cleanliness, dedication, faithfulness, self-esteem and a sense of value among the pupils. "Parents should check their children's school work frequently, so that they are able to contribute to their performance in the classroom," he added. He appealed to pupils who are struggling to succeed not to give up. "Don't waste time in creating excuses. An unnecessary excuse will not make you an achiever," he said. He also cautioned against the idea of using muti to help pupils to achieve better results. “Pupils and teachers had to sweat it out in order to reap the rewards at the end of the year,” he added. The donor, Mr Marageni, encouraged the youth to take education seriously, so that they can face the challenges of the future with ease. He encouraged the parents to cooperate with the Department of Education and other stakeholders for the benefit of education in the country.  During the handing over of the cheque to the top pupils are, from left to right, Ms Mary Ravhuvhali, Colbert Thangwana, Mr Londolani Marageni of Iceburg Trading, Moorosi Ralidzhivha and the principal, Mr Frank Rathogwa.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za