News - Date: 23 February 2019 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 470 The Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) in Limpopo said they supported the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) in the Vhembe region for its call to its members not to go to work until their demands are met. Members of both unions marched from Thohoyandou Stadium to Thohoyandou Police Station and the Vhembe District Municipality to hand over a memorandum of their demands last Wednesday. The march was part of the ongoing campaign against crime, corruption and the killing of trade-union members. Cosatu secretary in Limpopo Mr Gerald Twala said that they were worried that the poor and working class, who had invested millions of rands into the VBS Mutual Bank, continued to suffer the consequences of “greedy and corrupt professionals and politicians who looted their only financial institution.” He added that in honour of the departed leaders, Cosatu would continue to demand answers and accountability by those who had been at the helm of decision making in all municipalities implicated in the VBS looting. According to him, Samwu members have been living with threats even after the gunning down of slain Samwu officials Timmy Musetsho and Ronald Mani. “We are making a clarion call to members of the SAPS to rise and be counted among those who continue to provide quality services to the ordinary community members. Our men and women in blue must continue to create a safe and secure environment for all our people,” he added. During the march, Cosatu members presented a memorandum of their demands to the Thohoyandou Police Services, saying that the SAPS and Hawks must not rest until those implicated in the VBS looting were arrested, prosecuted and imprisoned and that they must not rest until the kingpins and the killers of Messrs Musetsho and Mani were arrested, prosecuted and imprisoned. They handed over these and other demands to the acting Limpopo SAPS Commissioner, Maj-Gen Jan Scheepers, who promised to attend positively to their demands. “We want to work hard around the clock and speedily arrest the culprits, as we are serving all our people. If anybody has information, they can inform me personally and I will act without delay,” said Scheepers. The secretary of Cosatu in Limpopo, Mr Gerald Twala, presents a memorandum containing their demands to the acting Limpopo commissioner, Maj-General Jan Scheepers, while some members of the union and police officers look on.  Email: