News - Date: 02 February 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 882 The death of a well-known spiritual leader, Bishop Ndivhaleni Petrus Mammburu (80) of the Acts of Apostles Church, has saddened people countrywide. Mammburu passed away after a short illness on Saturday after being admitted to the Mediclinic in Polokwane last Wednesday. His son, Mr Gilbert Mammburu, described his father as “an angel who brought up his children with love and affection. We wipe our tears, because we know that he served the Lord every minute of his life.” He said his father’s death had left a big void in the family. “He was everything to us and he was our main source of inspiration,” he said. He said he was a visionary and a good leader who loved all people without discriminating or taking sides. “For me he was like a friend and not a father, because we shared ideas,” he added. A representative of the church, Bishop Livhuwani Netshivhodza, described him as a pioneer, a born leader and a man of vision. He said the hearts of whole community and church members were heavy because the bishop had been influential in the church and community. He urged all to follow the good example set by Mammburu. “He had a vision to complete the house of God. I urge all of you, especially the children, to complete the project in order that his soul will rest in peace,” he said. “He was one of the veterans in the church and it becomes very painful when we lose icons like him.” The chairperson of SANCO, Mr Shaft Matumba, expressed his heartfelt condolences and support to the Mammburu family. He said that Mammburu had contributed to shaping the development in the area. “He was a selfless, visionary and dedicated leader of all people,” he said. Matumba also mentioned that “…Mammburu was a leader who understood that, as a church leader, one must transcend all boundaries and represent the hopes, interests and aspirations of all people to realize a better life.” Mammburu will be buried tomorrow at Tshiozwi cemetery. The service will start at 06:00 at his church.  Well-known Bishop Ndivhaleni Petrus Mammburu is no more.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za