News - Date: 15 February 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 210 The strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats of Musina Local Municipality were discussed in detail during a three-day municipal strategic-planning session that took place at Musina last week. An issue also under discussion was the readiness of the municipality in relation to the government’s initiative of the Special Economic Zone programme. The acting mayor of the session and member of Musina Municipality’s executive committee (EXCO), Cllr Nkele Milanzi, said it was important for the municipality to plan while, at the same time, reporting on progress and implementation of the resolutions that were taken during the previous strategic planning sessions. She said the purpose of the meeting was to define the municipality’s strategy as an institution and to make critical decisions on allocating resources to achieve the strategy, including capital and people.  “We should use this opportunity to come up with a comprehensive action plan that will improve the lives of the people out there. We need to know exactly where we stand, determine where we want to go and how we will get there.” Milanzi said that, despite limited resources and a lack of finances, the municipal leadership was happy that a lot of progress had been reported in terms of the resolutions that had been taken the previous year. “This clearly demonstrates that, as a people-centred institution, we are moving in the right direction. The way we plan has a serious impact on the outcome of the final product.” The municipal manager, Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi, said his administrative team would continue to work closely with councillors and various stakeholders to improve the lives of the local people. Photographed during Musina Municipality's strategic planning session are, from left to right, Cllr Siyaphi Shirilele (EXCO member), Cllr Nkele Milanzi (acting mayor), Advocate Edward Lambani (chairperson of Musina Municipal Audit Committee), Cllr Jeremiah Khunwana (EXCO member), Cllr Gilbert Netshisaulu (Council Speaker) and Nathi Tshiwanammbi (municipal manager).  Email: