News - Date: 02 February 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 195 Learners at the rural Mianzwi Primary School at Mianzwi outside Thohoyandou used to scramble for drinking water at the school. This is now history and they are all getting adequate, clean water at the school. Last Wednesday, the whole school was in a celebratory mood. This followed a donation of a 5 000-litre eco tank and two toilets by Eco Tanks, in conjunction with a local hardware store, Cashbuild, at Mukula. School principal Mr Samuel Madi said the school was built in 1912 through contributions by the community. With Vhembe District overwhelmed by water scarcity, the school managed to get a borehole and a small tank for the 328 learners and 13 educators, but this proved chaotic as learners competed for water at one tap during breaks. "It was a chaotic state here, with many learners losing their precious learning time waiting for water. This is a great relief to us as a school and we wholeheartedly thank our sponsors for this generous donation," he said. Mr Arnold Dlamini of Eco Tanks said they had a social-responsibility programme with their suppliers, such as Cashbuild and others, where they assisted needy communities. "This is our first project in this area, and we urge other needy institutions to apply and we will assess them and assist where possible," he said. Mukula Cashbuild manager Mr Michael Makhado said theirs was a people-centred business. "We are part of the community and we have assisted many community initiatives and we will continue being of service to them. We are ploughing back, and this is our humble contribution to the development of this country as children are the future," he said.  Excited learners, Eco Tank and Cashbuild staff with Mianzwi Primary School staff during the handover of the tank and toilets. Staff at Mianzwi Primary School, their sponsors and learners during the handover at Mianzwi village.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: