News - Date: 09 February 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 284 The 16-year-old Thovhedzo Netshimbilombilo is the toast of her village after she won the Miss Khubvi 2019 title during an event that was recently held at Khubvi. A resident of Phiphidi village, she surprised many people when she scooped the prize and took it off Khubvi village to her Phiphidi village. The prize came with cash money, a certificate and gifts. “I spent some months preparing for the contest and I had people who encouraged me all the way to the winning,” Thovhedzo said. “I am so proud of this achievement. I feel happy. I believe I was able to win because I was determined from day one through preparations. I am a young woman whose confidence speaks volumes.” She is ready to conquer the world now that she has won the Miss Khubvi 2019 title. “This is my first title, but I know that we all start somewhere,” she said. “I am just a young girl who lives by the quote that 'little girls with big dreams become women with amazing visions'. I know that without hard work, it's hard to realise one's dreams.” Now that she has been crowned Miss Khubvi 2019, she plans to make a difference of some kind in Vhembe District. She will visit the schools to speak with pupils on issues of child rights and also donate some clothes and sanitary towels. “Youths must dream big and have faith, coupled with determination and hard work,” she said. The event was organised and hosted by The Winning Team, a non-profit organisation based at Khubvi village. “We are happy for Thovhedzo,” said The Winning Team's representative, Mr Voice Nevhulenda. “We encourage all young women in the district to consider entering the contest when we announce the next round later on this year.” Matamela Netshandama was crowned first princess while Denga Muremela was second princess.  Thovhedzo Netshimbilombilo was crowned Miss Khubvi. Photo supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com