News - Date: 16 February 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 1707 The MEC for Health in Limpopo, Dr Phophi Ramathuba, has been hailed for acting against “shocking mismanagement” at Tshilidzini Hospital. Ramathuba replaced the entire management team at the hospital earlier this week, following several concerns raised by the community. This follows her visit on New Year’s Day, when she was met with long queues at the hospital’s vital signs area. Even the passage was overcrowded. On that day, patients and community members raised their concern about poor service at the hospital. Some also told the concerned MEC that it was normal for them to spend the whole day at the hospital and later go back home without being attended to. Ramathuba, who was listening to patients’ concerns attentively, promised that she was going to address to their concerns. Living up to her promises, she returned to Tshilidzini Hospital this Tuesday to introduce the intervention team she had announced last Friday. The MEC announced the intervention as part of turning around the situation at the hospital. The team is comprised of acting CEO Ms Nndwambi (from the Vhembe district office), acting clinical manager Dr Nndwambi (from the hospital, not related to the acting CEO), acting nursing service manager SC Baloyi (from Mankweng Hospital), acting finance manager Mr Magadani (from the Vhembe district office), acting corporate manager Mr Mabasa (Vhembe district office) and acting technical manager Mr Ntsieni (Vhembe district office). The MEC has given the team a trial time of 100 days to turn around the situation at the hospital. During the time of our going to press, no clear indication was given what will happen to Mr Mpho Mufamadi, who was the CEO of the hospital, or Dr Mukwevho, who was technical manager, and their management team. Dr Ramathuba described the poor service at Tshilidzini as “shocking.” A concerned citizen, Mr Tshivhilaeli Mutobvu, said that he regretted becoming a patient at Tshilidzini when he was admitted at the male surgical ward in April and May last year. “When I was there, there was no bedding, patient gowns or water.  Even though I was sick, I prayed every day to see myself out of that hospital. I do not even wish to go back there,” said Mutobvu. “When I heard about the drastic changes made at Tshilidzini, I thought I was dreaming. My wish is that these steps will bring the stability we have all been waiting for,” said Mutobvu. MEC for Health Dr Pophi Ramathuba during her fact-finding mission at Tshilidzini Hospital on New Year's Day. This week she came back and replaced the whole management team.  Email: