News - Date: 16 February 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 400 Teachers and pupils have been locked out of the Matodzi High School in the Vuwani area since last Friday by angry parents and school governing body (SGB) members. The dispute concerns the principal, who is accused of being unreliable as well as a maths teacher who was transferred to another school by the department. The chairperson of the SGB, Mr Silas Tshikukuvhe, explained that they had opted to lock the school gates and embark on protest action. “The school will remain closed until our demands are met,” he said. Tshikukuvhe complained that the SGB and parents were not informed of any of the happenings at the school. He accused the current principal of being unreliable and said that she was absent for long periods. When an acting principal was appointed, the Grade 12 results improved dramatically from 40% to 75%, he said. The Department of Education’s move to appoint the school’s maths teacher at another school this year did not go down well either. Tshikukuvhe complained that the school was now left without a maths teacher. “We’re tired and our kids are also tired of being treated badly; enough is enough,” he said. When Limpopo Mirror visited the school last Friday, the pupils were standing around in the streets while others called their transport operators to fetch them. “We understand that staying out of our classes won’t help us pass, but neither will staying in class without teachers, especially for such crucial subjects (as maths),” said a Grade 12 pupil, Hitekani Makhubele. The Department of Education’s spokesperson in Limpopo, Sam Makondo, condemned the indiscriminate closing of schools. “Closing a school and disrupting lessons is totally unacceptable. When there are complaints, let them be resolved on the side lines, while teaching and learning continue, because this disadvantages our pupils,” he said. Makondo said that the Matodzi High School had 276 learners and five educators. He said the maths teacher of the previous year no longer had a post at the school, but the department was busy negotiating the issue. As far as the principal was concerned, Makondo said she was on incapacity leave, but had returned to the school this year. The department was aware that the SGB and the community were not happy with the principal’s return. Makondo said that all those issues were receiving attention. Pupils picket outside the school with their placards, saying they need the maths teacher back. The SGB chairperson, Mr Silas Tshikukuvhe.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za