News - Date: 19 July 2019 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 958 The five-year-old Ritlhavile Novela, who died after allegedly drinking traditional mageu at a crèche near Malamulele, was buried among huge public interest at Gumbani on Saturday. The mageu was allegedly prepared during a passing-out parade of young girls who were at an initiation school. About 29 community members in Gumbani village were hospitalized after the incident when they fell ill. The principal of Nyeleti Crèche, Ms Daphne Nkomondo of Gumbani village near Phaphazela, described little Ritlhavile as a quiet little girl who always obediently took orders from her teachers. “She left us unexpectedly, and it will be difficult for her friends to forget her smiling face,” said Nkomondo. The traditional leader of Gumbani-Khathisa, Headman Magezi Baloyi, said that he was shocked to learn about the incident and that it must be fully investigated. He added that he did not want to see or hear of incidents like that in his village and ordered everyone to chase away anybody found guilty of killing other innocent people. Mr Mike Masuluke of Living Memories Funeral Services said that after listening to the radio and hearing the sad news about the young child who had died after drinking traditional magau in Gumbani, he decided to help the family to bury her. He sponsored a coffin, a tombstone and food for the funeral. Masuluke, whose funeral service works for communities in Malamulele, Giyani and Tzaneen, said they wanted to comfort the bereaved family, so that they could give their child a respectful and dignified burial. Ritlhavile left behind her mother, Ms Tsakani Tsundzuka, and father, Mr Jackie Novela.  Ritlhavela Novela. Some of the family members of Ritlhavela Novela of Gumbani village carry her coffin during the funeral. Some young children of Nyeleti Crèche in Gumbani village, accompanied by the principal, Ms Daphne Nkomondo, and other community members paid their last respects to Ritlhavela Novela  Email: