News - Date: 29 July 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 637 The youths of the African Methodist Episcopal Church (AME) in Vhembe recently convened at the church's Madombidzha branch for the Youth and Sunday School Convention, where they interacted on social and spiritual aspects that concern the lives of youths in the world of today. Different speakers addressed the youths. The Sunday School children between the ages of 3 and 12 years were given lessons from the Bible to memorise and recite, which helps them to read and understand the Bible from a tender age. Choral music competitions were held later on Sunday, which helped in the promotion of praise and worship within and outside the church. “This is a session that is loved by all people since it brings the young and old together,” said the youths’ representative, Thabo Masehela. “This annual convention is always so fulfilling to the youths’ well-being by providing them with key life-shaping skills such as public speaking, self-confidence and leadership.” The convention was attended by 250 youths from all corners of the district and the presiding elder, Rev Vhulahani Nemakonde, commended all the youths for showing determination and seriousness in the work of God. “If you work for God, it benefits you and gives pleasure to his heart,” he said. Nemakonde called upon the youths to follow the Scriptures and understand the history of the church, so that they might know who they were in order to function as respectful, respectable and responsible persons in the social sphere. Sister Matenzhe Dagada motivated the youths and said that, irrespective of their backgrounds or circumstances, they could still achieve a lot through determination, self-discipline and a never-give-up approach. “You must also be proactive and put first things first – if you do that, you will live a happier and victorious life,” she said.  The youth choir of the African Methodist Episcopal Church (AME) sang during the event.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com