News - Date: 15 July 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 1775 “This marriage serves as a mirror for other men and women that married couples need to walk together as partners who are intertwined by love. Without love and the knowledge of love, we hardly get anywhere.” Dr Bardwell Mufunwaini (67) was speaking during the 40th celebration of his and 58-year-old Mrs Tintswalo Mufunwaini's marriage, during an event that was held at the Shayandima Full Gospel Church. “This is also a loud and clear call to our young men out there that they have got to stick to their partners and enjoy life, against all odds,” he said. “A path of marriage is enjoyable and fruitful. Ask me and my sweetheart of 40 years and we will tell you without reservation.” The couple, who both were professional nurses, met at Elim during a departmental event on 26 January 1979. For them, it was love at first sight, as many would say – Mufunwaini did not want to waste his time. He told Tintswalo how he felt about her, and the rest came to make a good matrimonial story. “We have travelled a blissful journey together through the four decades,” she said. “We still continue to drink from the same glass of pure love. He takes good care of me; and I do the same. This is what we call love.” Mufunwaini held out his hands and reached to his wife, who took his hands. They looked into each other’s eyes and smiled. “We have had heartbreaks in our lives, but we were able to conquer them and live on as healed people,” he said. A family friend and pastor, Bishop Dr Jerry Marole, said that being in a marriage for 40 years was not child's play. “Both of them had been through a lot of accidents, but they all survived by the grace of God,” he said. “There is a lot to learn from this couple, most particularly for the younger generation who are already in marriage and those who would like to get into marriage.” Mr Robert Sirwali said that he was pleased to be 'brother' to Dr Mufunwaini and a family friend because they regarded him as a pillar to his family and communities in Vhembe district. “We regard him as a man of vision by establishing a men's organisation which is assisting men in the province to take responsibilities for their families,” he said. “His address to all health establishments and in the media cannot be over-emphasised. We are proud to have a man of his calibre in the province. We wish him and his family good health and more blessings.”  Dr Bardwell Mufunwaini and Mrs Tintswalo Mufunwaini got married again recently as part of their 40th  wedding anniversary.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com