News - Date: 13 July 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 151 Limpopo Premier Chupu Mathabatha recently said that they had set aside R900 million for the construction of four special schools. The schools are Rivoni and Mhinga in Vhembe, Asiphumelele in Sekhukhune and Pfunanani in Mopani. Mathabatha made this announcement during the State of the Province Address held at Lebowakgomo Legislative Chambers last Friday. Both the Asiphumelele and Rivoni projects are expected to commence with construction during this financial year and the other two in the next financial year. "We will also spend an amount of R192 million to address the backlog of school-sanitation infrastructure in 100 schools across the province," Mathabatha said. In relation to the school infrastructure, Mathabatha said they would complete the upgrading of 67 schools across the province to the tune of R1,24 billion. "We will also be commencing with the construction of 123 school-infrastructure projects during this financial year. We have budgeted R1,62 billion for these projects, which are expected to be completed during the current medium-term expenditure framework period," Mathabatha said. To respond to the challenge of the increasing number of fatal accidents on the roads, he said that, over the next five years, they would employ and place more traffic officials on all major roads across the province. "During this financial year, we will appoint 238 young people who are currently doing traffic learnerships as full-time traffic officials," he said. "We have also set aside an amount of R43 million for the refurbishment of the Limpopo Traffic College, so that we can increase the college’s capacity to train even more young people."  Limpopo Premier Chupu Mathabatha.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: