News - Date: 15 July 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 417 The Shanzha royal palace outside Thohoyandou resembled a church service last Sunday. This was during a visit by the local pastor's forum, community members and many congregants who had come for a day of prayer at Chief Pfananani Shavhani’s residence. The pastors were led by Bishop George Muhali, who rendered the main sermon and officially launched a new pastors’ forum executive committee. Forum spokesperson Bishop Tshililo Tshirumbula said they had wanted to visit Chief Pfananani Shavhani and pray together with him for a long time. "Our chief is a man who cares and looks after a big village, which is an enormous task. We are here to pray with him that God gives him the wisdom and strength to lead us.” He added that the land was bleeding with ills such as crime, corruption and killings “and this made us think of having this special prayer day and after this prayer we know God will bring change here and life goes on peacefully”. In his sermon, Bishop Muhali said God had blessed Chief Shavhani in many ways. "Please lead his people the right way and God will continue to bless you,” Muhali said. In response, Chief Shavhani thanked the pastors for their effort to put everything under God's control. "As rulers we need peace of mind and peace in our communities. There will never be peace if we distance ourselves from God, and we encourage pastors to continue praying for the sake of peace in our area," he said. Shavhani further commended the church for the role they were playing in society.  Bishop George Muhali prays for Chief Pfananani Shavhani during the prayer day held at the royal palace at Shanzha. Pastors, royal family members, traditional leaders and other guests during the prayer day at Shanzha.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: