News - Date: 01 July 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 153 The 20-year-old Mulisa Mukwevho was crowned Miss Awareness during an event at the Vele Secondary School in Gogogo village last week.

Mulisa, who hails from Tswinga village outside Thohoyandou, said: "I'm very happy to win such a competitive pageant. I feel honoured and privileged to be crowned as Miss Awareness, although I didn't expect to win. I thank God for making this beautiful event possible."

She is a final-year environmental sciences student at the University of Venda and said that she had entered the pageant to boost her self-esteem. "I wanted to have a sense of achievement and fulfilment and also to showcase not just my beauty, but my greater potential and personality," she added. She received R1 000, a sash, a crown, flowers and jewellery.

She is eager to do more in Limpopo. "My focus now is to win Miss Limpopo,” she said.

When asked why she was so passionate about modelling, she said: "I love modelling because this is the only industry that allows us to give honour to the beauty that God has placed in us. Modelling makes me a complete person."

Awards were also made to Nduvho Mandiwana (1st princess), Zwavhudi Netshitumbu (2nd princess), and Portia Ramasimu (Miss Public Choice).

The event organizer, Mukovhe Makhari, said that the pageant aimed to encourage and build the youth in the rural areas to unleash their talent.

Miss Awareness was founded by Thabelo Negogogo and Unarine Ratshipanga. Mulisa Mukwevho was crowned Miss Awareness last week.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: