News - Date: 14 July 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 878 In two incidents that are believed to be related to mob killings, two women from Mashau Misevhe A lost their lives when angry community members accused them of having a hand in the disappearance of a 12-year-old boy. The boy, Thabelo Muila, went missing on 10 June while playing with others at a local complex. He was found dead at a local river on Friday. That was when the community saw red and gathered to go looking for the people whom they suspected to have killed the boy. They hounded the two women, Ms Sarah Hulumeni (66) and Ms Esther Mudziwa, stripping them naked, attacking them with an assortment of weapons and setting them alight. One of the women died on the spot, while the other succumbed to her injuries at a hospital. A house belonging to Hulumeni was also torched and the windows broken. A 79-year-old man was lucky to escape with his life, but his big house was burnt to the ground during the attack. This incident, not an isolated one in Vhembe, has shocked the village and the family members of the deceased, who are now seeking answers as to why their loved ones were killed. Hulumeni's youngest daughter, Ms Rolivhuwa Hulumeni, said that they were relaxing at a neighbour's house just opposite their home when they noticed a mob at their gate. “It was around 09:00 when they arrived and accused my mother of being responsible for the death of the missing boy. They burnt our thatch rondavel and broke windows of the other houses before taking my mother away. One of the attackers also manhandled me and we only learnt later that my mother was killed in the most brutal way,” she said. Rolivhuwa said it felt like a part if her had been taken away. “My mother was killed like an animal. She was not sick and did not deserve to die like that for something she did not know anything about. I am so saddened and heartbroken. She was a peaceful person who could not even hurt a fly.” Meanwhile, Limpopo police commissioner Gen Nneke Ledwaba has condemned the incident in the strongest terms, saying those involved would meet the full might of the law. Police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the incidents. "Following the intensive investigations, the police arrested two suspects, aged 16 and 17, on Saturday afternoon. More arrests are expected,” he said. Anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the other suspects involved in this matter is requested to contact Detective Warrant Officer Mudogwa Mutshutshu on 072 107 6731, the crime stop number 0860010111 or the nearest police station.    Salvaging what is left from the inferno that gutted the rondavel. Broken windows are what is left after the attack. The late Ms Sarah Hulumeni, who was hounded from her home and later killed by the mob. The completely burnt-out rondavel of the Hulumeni household.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: