News - Date: 22 July 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 626 Youths in Vhembe District and other parts of Limpopo gathered at Madombidzha's Uniting Reformed Church in Southern Africa for the Kranspoort Presbytery's annual Christ Youth Ministry Conference, which was held two weeks ago. The conference was held under the theme If it is from God no-one can stop it (Acts 5:39) and Rev NR Neluheni delivered the sermon of the day, based on the theme, on Sunday. The executive chairperson for the Kranspoort Presbytery, Elder NJ Matakanye, said that they were pleased by the massive turn-up of youths and supporting parents who had all come to reap the fruits of the Word of God. “We had a very successful youth conference; we consisted of seven congregations from our region,” he said. “At least 200 youths attended the conference as planned. We thank all people who took part in organising and arranging this conference. We are grateful for the Kranspoort Presbytery who allowed this event to take place in their place at the last minute. We thank Almighty God for his divine intervention in the preparations.” The youths' activities included, among others, singing, marching and poetry reciting, which spanned three days. The conference formed the basis of an effective community ministry and community building. Youths were encouraged to focus on their studies as a way of preparing for a good future. After the conference, all youths were expected to get back to their villages, townships and towns and start making a difference by contributing to the development of those places and to make positive contributions in their communities. The chairperson of the Christ Youth Ministry, Thendo Tshilate, said that the annual conference brought together youths from seven congregations to worship with the aim of uniting the youth and reviving their souls. “We had invited guests who motivated the youths on matters of career development,” Thendo said. The invited guest, Mr Peter Mbelengwa, gave a talk on the fourth industrial revolution where he highlighted the fact that youths must educate themselves, so that they could have proper and relevant skills to secure them a better future.  In the photo are (backrow, standing) Rev TS Sinthumule (treasurer), Elder NJ Matakanye (chairperson), and Rev NR Neluheni (scribe). Front, seated: Sheperd Nthala (treasurer), Gundo Sambala (deputy secretary), Lufuno Sinthumule (secretary), Jimmy Livhimba (deputy chairperson) and Thendo Tshilate (chairperson).  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com