News - Date: 04 July 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1053 The late Vhakoma Vho-Madala Virginia Tshivhase was eulogised as a visionary leader who led the Tshivhase royal family and the community to greater heights. Tshivhase (80), of Golgotha in Thohoyandou, passed away after a long illness a fortnight ago. A memorial service in her honour was held on Thursday at Univen and her funeral service took place at the same venue, before her burial at the Zwiendeulu Mukumbane (sacred burial site). She was buried next to her husband. On Saturday, thousands of mourners from all over the country, among them Vhembe’s executive mayor, Cllr Dowelani Nenguda, Thulamela Mayor Mushoni Tshifhango, Vhavenda kingship contender princess Masindi Mphephu, government officials, judges Joe Raulinga and Tshifhiwa Maumela, traditional leaders, political organizations and community structures came together to give her a dignified send off. Speaking during the funeral, Coghsta MEC Bioskop Makamu, who represented the Limpopo government, called on the royal families to follow in Vhakoma's footsteps and not allow royal disputes to tear their families apart. "Vhakoma Vho-Tshivhase passed on at a time when we need her wisdom and her model of leadership. We are deeply saddened by her passing on, and death has robbed us of a true leader," he said. Prince Gulukhulu Mathebula of Vhembe Contralesa called on the government to make a building available for them to use as a museum that will store the histories of leaders like Vhakoma Vho-Madala Tshivhase and others. Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase said his mother's death had left a void that no one would fill. "I am just thankful of the support that we are getting from government structures that my mother worked with and the community at large," said Tshivhase Vhakoma is survived by her son Kennedy, nine grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.  The only child of Vhakoma Vho-Virginia Tshivhase, Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase, arrives at the Univen Auditorium for her funeral. Vhakoma Vho-Virginia Tshivhase's casket is taken to the hall at Univen during her funeral. During the funeral at Univen are Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase (2nd from left), Thulamela Mayor Mushoni Tshifhango (2nd from right) and Princess Masindi Mphephu.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: