News - Date: 17 May 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 674 The mayor of Thulamela Local Municipality, Cllr Avhashoni Tshifhango (47) received his  B Com (Accounting) degree during a ceremony in the Univen auditorium on Tuesday afternoon.

Tshifhango, who is also a member of the university’s council, was one of the 161 students who were tapped by a former president, Mr Kgalema Motlanthe, the chancellor of the institution.

Tshifhango, who became a mayor in 2016, said that he juggled his busy schedule and classes, coupled with ‘many hours of studies’ in order to attain his degree. Besides the distraction of political engagement in his early life, Tshifhango says that his poor background also contributed to the delay in his studies.

“My dream had always been to be a Charted Accountant (CA). Unfortunately, I could not do this due to a lack of funds. Besides that, I never gave up on my dreams. This degree is just a step away from my dream. In five years, I told myself that I must be a CA,” said Tshifhango.

Tshifhango, who has been criss-crossing secondary and primary schools in Thulamela since he came into the office while encouraging learners to take their education seriously, said he believed that his graduation would help to inspire young people, especially the youth.

“Education is important, because it can help you to change your situation besides the background. Education can help you reach your dreams. It can also relieve you from economic depression. It can take you out of poverty. If many of our people are educated, we can have good learners and a good country,” he said.

He added that because of his background, he had not have the opportunity to study for free like the youth of today. He also has a diploma in project management from Oxbridge Academy, a national certificate in community development work from Univen and a certificate in executive management leadership from the University of Pretoria.

His primary education was at Vondwe Primary and Tshifhatani. He then went to Tshidimbini Secondary in his home village. He started his political engagements in 1985 while in Grade 7. He was also elected member of the SRC at Tshidimbini and served there as organizer for Cosas.

At Univen, he served as organizing secretary for the SACP. He was elected as secretary for the Phiriphiri SACP branch, secretary for the Khadzinge branch, chairperson of the Thulamela Youth Council, organizer of the ANC Youth League and he later became chairperson of the Young Communist League’s Alpheus Malivha branch. He was also elected secretary of the Young Communist League’s Alpheus Malivha District (Vhembe), secretary for ANC Imvuselelo Campaign Committee, secretary of ANC Thulamela sub-region, and later elected chairperson of ANC Thulamela sub-region.

Following the 2016 local government elections, Tshifhango was elected as mayor for Thulamela, the position he still occupies.

Univen's vice chancellor, Dr Ndanduleni Nthambeleni, congratulated Tshifhango in particular, and other students for their achievements in his opening speech.  Mayor Avhashoni Tshifhango received his BCom Accounting degree at Univen on Tuesday afternoon..  Email: