News - Date: 25 May 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 142 “Gender equality is key to Musina Municipality and we want to fast-track and create more meaningful experiences for girl learners. We want to help prepare and empower the next generation of women leaders who will help propel the country forward in the digital economy.” These are the words of Cllr Rabelani Gadabeni, who was addressing girl learners during the Take a Girl Child to Work campaign at Musina show grounds last Tuesday. The girls from Musina and Renaissance High School were also addressed by various professionals before they were dispersed to gain practical work experience in various units of Musina Municipality.  The event was organized by the Limpopo Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta), in partnership with Musina Municipality. Gadabeni, who is responsible for special programmes at Musina Municipality, said he was happy that the people of Musina were also making contributions to the initiative because it was regarded as one of South Africa’s largest collaborative acts that had helped more than a million girls. “What is more interesting about this event is that male children are not ignored. I’m very glad to see that the male children are part of this event, because by being with us here today, they will be able to reflect on their relationship with women and be informed about what behaviours are not acceptable.” He reminded the young learners that they had a very big role to play as Musina was currently preparing to become a city soon. “The Special Economic Zone project, which will create more than 20 000 jobs, is already in the early implementation stage. We want you to take over and run this project when you grow up. You will only be able to do it if you concentrate on your studies and build your own bright future.” He warned the learners to stay away from drugs and alcohol. “Although we as government, parents, community stakeholders and the police are doing their best to curb this behaviour, it is you who should say no to drugs and alcohol. Your job is to concentrate on your education because alcohol and drugs will take you nowhere. They will only destroy your future.”  Cllr Rabelani Gadabeni, photographed with some of the girls at the Musina Show Grounds. This was before the girls were dispersed to gain practical work experience in various units of Musina Municipality.  Email: