News - Date: 16 May 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 755 Deceased Musina Municipality employee Avhapfani Samuel Nemunzhele (50) was described as a loving, friendly and hardworking individual whose contribution to the development of his community would remain forever. His memorial service took place at the Nancefield community hall, Musina, last Friday. Nemunzhele died after falling ill and he was buried at his home village of Rabali-Posaito in the Nzhelele area last Saturday. He was a service worker attached to the parks and recreation unit at Musina Municipality for the past 11 years. When addressing family members, municipal employees and friends of the deceased, Musina Municipal Manager Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi said it was sad to lose an employee of Nemunzhele’s calibre. Tshiwanammbi said the municipality had learnt of Nemunzhele’s passing with shock and disbelief. “His departure is a great loss to both the family, the community and us as his employers.” Tshiwanammbi said employees who worked in the parks were a very important part of the municipality. “The beauty of our municipality depends on these people. When tourists visit our municipality, their first impression depends on the landscaping, maintenance and beauty of our parks and surroundings. As one of our park workers, Mr Nemunzhele played a vital role in beautifying our municipality.” Family representative Mr Azwidohwi Nemunzhele thanked the municipality for their support during the difficult time. “Although we are mourning, we are thankful for your support during this time. We have seen you assisting the family from the first day our loved one passed on. This clearly demonstrates that you are full of love, care and responsibility.” Cllr Nkele Milanzi expressed her condolences to the family and colleagues of the deceased.  Cllr Nkele Milanzi presents a wreath to Ms Musiiwa Tshiambwa Nemunzhele, the grieving wife of Avhapfani Nemunzhele, during the memorial service at Nancefield community hall last Friday. Mr Avhapfani Samuel Nemunzhele (50).  Email: