News - Date: 19 May 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 119 As from 1 July 2019, a ward committee member who fails to attend three consecutive ward committee meetings automatically forfeits membership and monthly stipends. This was revealed by the Speaker of Musina Municipality, Cllr Gilbert Netshisaulu, during a consultative meeting at the Madimbo community hall. Netshisaulu said the proposed changes of the Musina Municipality Ward Committee Policy were informed by identified gaps within the policy. He added that the intention was to align the policy with similar policies within the sector and the Vhembe District Municipality. “We felt strongly that failure to attend meetings on the specific month would result in a member’s not receiving a stipend for the same month – hence the termination of membership upon failure to attend three consecutive meetings.” Netshisaulu said instances occurred where some ward committee members used their status to discredit their ward councillors. “There will be consequences in the instances where a ward committee does not work closely with the local ward councillor.  A ward committee member assists the ward councillor in identifying challenges and needs of the residents – not the other way around. He or she must accessible to the community at all times.” He added that if they found that a ward committee member was using his or her position for other privileges, private gain or to benefit improperly, they would take drastic steps, including termination of membership. “Ward committee members must adopt the principle of transparency, openness, sincerity and honesty and promote the spirit of trust and respect for the integrity of the municipality. They must embrace all views and opinions in the process of community participation as per their signed code of conduct and must not act in any way to compromise the credibility, integrity, impartiality, and independence of the committee.” He concluded that the proposed changes in the policy would instil accountability to ward committee members, so that they would serve the community with diligence and determination. “We welcome any inputs, suggestions and deliberations before we effect the proposed changes.”  The Speaker of Musina Municipality, Cllr Gilbert Netshisaulu.  Email: