News - Date: 11 May 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 259 Veteran journalist Mathatha Tsedu and iconic singer Yvonne Chaka Chaka were among the recipients of the National Orders Awards, which were held at the Sefako Makgatho Presidential Guest House in Pretoria on 25 April. According to Pres Cyril Ramaphosa, the Order of Ikhamanga was bestowed on South Africans who had excelled in the fields of the arts, culture, literature, music, journalism and sport. A resident of Tshavhalovhedzi village in the Nzhelele area, Tsedu is a journalist whose track record and journalistic output speaks volumes in a variety of ways, such as editor, journalist and mentor to the younger generation of newsmen and -women. “It is through hard work and selflessness even during the harshest of times in our country during the apartheid era and even after that era, that this order has been bestowed on me,” Tsedu said. He called on all South Africans to work together towards a healthy country. “This is the only country we have, and this South Africa has to work and for it to work it means each one of us has to do the best we can in whatever field,” Tsedu said shortly after accepting the award. “Whatever you do, do it the best way you can. That way, collectively, we move ourselves forward.” He urged the younger generation of journalists to follow the ethics of journalism and work harder with dedication and passion. The Order of Ikhamanga in Silver was bestowed on Yvonne Chaka Chaka for her contribution to the field of music and her contribution to social cohesion. Her meteoric star rose in the mid-1980s with popular songs such as I’m in love with a DJ, I'm burning up, I cry for freedom, Sangoma, Motherland, and Umqombothi. Through the decades, she went on to establish herself as a teacher, humanitarian and a successful entrepreneur. Her life is one that speaks of selflessness. Ramaphosa praised the recipients for the ground-breaking work that had earned them the Orders. “You have gained recognition for your dedication to personal, professional and other improvements, to putting yourselves at the service of your country and for your willingness to do your part to make South Africa a better place,” he said. The six national orders are the Order of Mendi for bravery, the Order of Ikhamanga, the Order of the Baobab, the Order of Luthuli, the Order of Mapungubwe and the Order of the Companions of OR Tambo. The National Orders are the highest honour the president can bestow on this country’s citizens and eminent foreign nationals whose heroic deeds relate to the aspirations of South Africa.  Veteran journalist and editor Mr Mathatha Tsedu receives the Order of Ikhamanga from Pres Cryil Ramaphosa. Photo supplied. The legendary singer and humanitarian Ms Yvonne Chaka Chaka (right) receives the Order of Ikhamanga from Pres Cryil Ramaphosa. Photo supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com