News - Date: 19 May 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 102 Pupils of Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School will now have access to computers and the Internet. This was made possible through a donation from MTN, when they handed over a “cyberlab” to the value of R400 000 last Thursday. The handover was attended by the Deputy Minister of Communications, Ms Pinky Kekana. Ms Ramsey Mosethedi, the general manager of stakeholder relations of MTN, said that her company had an important role to play in the development of the country and one way they had chosen to focus on was education. “Our corporate social-investment programme is already being felt throughout South Africa, particularly in institutions of higher learning and communities. We will continue assisting with resources and facilities wherever possible," she said. Kekana said that the government wanted to create awareness about the situation of disabled people and challenged persons, as well of the people who took care of them. She said a great need to improve the education infrastructure in the province still existed. According to her, all parents had a responsibility to look after their children, irrespective of whether they were born in or out of wedlock. “We must send a clear message that people with disabilities are as human and productive as everyone else in society. Disabled people, like all members of society, have the right to human rights and dignity.” She emphasised that computers have become part of people’s daily lives and that they have been introduced to kids at pre-schools. "A click of the mouse opens the whole world and we would like to urge pupils and the community to take full advantage of the resources available to them and make the best use of them to broaden their knowledge in order to realise their dreams," she said. The principal of the school, Ms Mufunwa Ramutshila, promised that they would look after the computers and the building.  Photographed during the handing over  of the computers are, from left to right, Tshililo Makhethakhetha, Cllr David Davhana, Lebowani Kharidzwe, Cllr Jeaneth Matumba, Ms Ramsey Mosethedi (MTN), Deputy Minister Pinky Kekana,Vhembe West general manager of education Mr Shumani Ravhuanzwo, Principal Mufunwa Ramutshila, Fortune Rikhotso, Phiwo Gasa and Latani Rammbona.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za