News - Date: 31 May 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 180 The mayor of Musina, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, has called upon indigent community members to visit identified registration points to register for free municipal services on weekdays between 08:00 and 16:00. The month-long registration started last Thursday and will close on 21 June. This is in preparation for updating the indigent register for the new financial year that starts on 1 July. Each beneficiary of the municipality’s indigent policy receives 6 kilolitres of water, 55 kilowatts of electricity and 100% free sewer and refuse removal services every month. During the current financial year, the municipality is providing approximately 3 000 indigent residents with free services. Muhlope says indigents are people whose joint family monthly income is R3 500 or less. “We subsidize these people with free services on a monthly basis, because we regard them as not financially viable and they need assistance to be able to sustain themselves. We urge our people to use this opportunity, because there will be no further registration of indigents after 21 June.” She says that people should keep certain documents handy in order to be successfully registered for the free services. “These include a copy of the ID of the applicant and spouse if married, copies of dependents’ birth certificates, recent municipal account, electricity meter number, proof of income in the form of payslip or bank statement and an affidavit if the applicant is unemployed. Those who receive social grants must also provide proof thereof.” She encourages community members to visit the following registration points: Matswale Clinic, Nancefield Gym, Nancefield and Skoonplaas municipal offices, Matswale municipal satellite office, Extension 10 SAPS satellite office, Harper, Campbell and municipal offices in Musina Town and Madimbo Thusong Centre. “In the rural areas community members are urged to contact their ward councillors for more information." The mayor of Musina, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope.  Email: