News - Date: 12 May 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 289 The bright lights and the comfort zone back in Ireland where he works could not make him forget his roots or stop him from fulfilling his traditional role back home at Ngovhela outside Thohoyandou. Last Saturday, Mr Mashonelo Gilbert Novhe was inaugurated as a traditional leader of Magweni, a village at Ngovhela. He was officially installed Vhavenda, a traditional title given to leaders in the Vhandalamo clan, of the area by the local senior traditional leader, Thovhele Ralson Sikhwivhilu, during an event held at the local sports grounds. As a sign of his new role in the community, Novhe, a nurse by profession, was given a hat and a walking stick during the ceremony. The age-old tshikona and malende dances were the order of the day during the ceremony. Venda maidens wearing traditional Tshivenda clothing and traditional baskets (mifaro) added to the spectacle. In his speech, local senior traditional leader Thovhele Raison Sikhwivhilu told the new leader to respect and work with the people he was leading. "You are not alone on your own island. Know that there are people and structures that you should work with in the community. Work with them and report whatever happens in your area to me. At your level, you do not have the powers to preside over cases.” He warned the new leader against womanising and alcohol abuse, saying they led to the downfall of many leaders. In response, Vhavenda Vho-Novhe said he saw nothing that would stop him from working towards development in his area. "I am aware of the mammoth task ahead of me, but I have all hope that with the team that I am going to work with, we will do more for our people. My being overseas is an advantage on its own as we will be knocking on doors for people to come and assist in our developmental agenda. We are also calling upon all with skills, wherever they are, to come on board that, together with our senior traditional leader, we bring development to this area," he said. Thovhele Ralson Sikhwivhilu  (standing second from left) congratulates the new leader, Vhavenda Vho-Gilbert Novhe, while other members of the royal family join in the festivities. Thovhele Ralson Sikhwivhilu and the new leader, Vhavenda Vho-Novhe, leading the tshikona dance during the ceremony.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: