News - Date: 24 May 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 465 One of the two suspects who allegedly robbed a Somalian shop at Madabani was severely assaulted by community members on 9 May. The swift response by the police rescued the suspect. In the incident, the community chased the man and subjected him to instant justice. The owner of the shop, Mr Jemore Hasebo, told Limpopo Mirror that the men had tried to rob the shop a previous time. This time the suspects also assaulted them. A member of the community, Mr Sy Mukhuba, said that it was good that the man had been beaten. “These criminals think they can do as they wish in the community. We are tired of crime and the rule of law is taking us nowhere. Beating or killing them will send a strong message out there that whoever wants to indulge in crime should think twice before doing that,” he said. The police said that they had arrested two men aged 20 and 22 and they were both facing a charge of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The two suspects in the robbery, Rofhiwa Mulaudzi (20) and Sekgole Ramokgopa, have already appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court and their case was postponed to 27 May for a bail application. In the meantime, the police condemned the action by the community members. A spokesperson for the police said that residents should not take the law into their own hands, but when confronted with such situations, they should give the police space to work. “Their role is to help the police with information, because if they take the law into their own hands, they are equally guilty of an offence,” the police said. At the time of our going to press, no arrest had yet been made for the assault on the suspects.  A suspect who was assaulted by community members, Rofhiwa Mulaudzi, was rescued by the police.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za