News - Date: 24 May 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 282 “Cllr Carol Phiri, always remember that you are not going to represent yourself in the National Assembly, you are going to represent the people of Limpopo, and Musina in particular. Thank you for the good times and sweet memories that you shared with us here in the Council of Musina Municipality.” These were the words of the Speaker of Musina Municipality, Cllr Gilbert Netshisaulu. He was addressing councillors and the management of Musina Municipality during the farewell function of Cllr Carol Phiri, who is joining the National Assembly after the recent general elections. The event took place at Mudzwiri Lodge last Friday and it was sponsored by Renuna Trading Enterprise and Mudzwiri Lodge. Netshisaulu said the municipality was very proud of producing a national asset such as Carol Phiri. He said it was very difficult to say goodbye to someone who was considered a member of the bigger family in the Council of Musina Municipality. “When we meet in life, we become very excited of getting new company, but the hardest part is to say goodbye to a colleague like Cllr Carol Phiri who has always been there when we need her. For Carol Phiri to join the National Assembly is a huge achievement in our lifetime. This proves that we also have capable leaders who can compete with our counterparts in the rest of South Africa.” He wished her a life full of happiness and joy as she began a new journey in life. Former mayor of Musina and ANC PR councillor Phiri said she was humbled by the fact that she was going to represent her people in the National Assembly. “Serving in the council of Musina Municipality helped me to grow politically and to understand how government works. I will put the interests of people before mine, so that we can fast-track service delivery in our country.” She thanked and commended the ANC for opening opportunities for women in the democratic South Africa. “This clearly demonstrates the fact that women can also lead, and here in Musina, we are leading by example. I would have not been going to the National Assembly today if the voters had not expressed their will for the ANC to stay in power.”  The Speaker of Musina Municipality, Cllr Gilbert Netshisaulu, wishes Cllr Carol Phiri good luck on her way to the National Assembly.  Email: