News - Date: 12 May 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 213 The Matsila Development Trust at Matsila in Vuwani has become a beacon of hope to many rural communities. The trust, which is the umbrella of many self-sustaining projects that employ more than 500 local people from surrounding villages in the area, has also become a centre of attraction, with many visiting the area to learn from this model of rural development. Organizations and traditional leaders from all over the country have visited the area where they shared ideas with the local traditional leader, Chief Livhuwani Matsila, the founder of the trust. To learn more about this model and to exchange ideas, senior traditional leaders led by the National House of Traditional Leaders, comprising senior leaders from across South Africa, visited the Matsila Projects on Thursday. The delegation was led by Inkosikazi Nomandla Mhlauli, deputy chairperson of the National House of Traditional Leaders. Speaking during the visit, Inkosikazi Mhlauli said as leaders they had heard of the good that was happening at Matsila and wanted to have first-hand information about the projects. “This is a fact-finding tour; we have learnt a lot here and we were also able to share our experiences with Chief Matsila. As traditional leaders who are responsible for rural communities, we have many poor subjects whom we must take care of.” He added that they believed that if the Matsila model could be implemented in all rural areas, more jobs would be created, and they would be able to ease poverty in their areas. The host, Chief Livhuwani Matsila, said he was humbled by the visit. "As leaders of the community, our time is mostly used to think on how best we could empower our people. We are happy that, with the help of the government, we have managed to create job opportunities for the lot of our people.”  Chief Livhuwani Matsila (left) shows some of the sculptures to the deputy chairperson of the national house of traditional leaders, Inosikazi Nomandla Mhlauli. With them is Chief Thinawanga Randima.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: