News - Date: 13 May 2019 Written by:  / Viewed: 143 Stakeholders and community members who could not make input into Musina Municipality’s 2019/20 Integrated Development Plan (IDP) and budget during various meetings can submit their input to the municipal offices. This comes just after the municipality has concluded its IDP and budget public participation around the area of its jurisdiction. According to the municipal spokesperson, Mr Wilson Dzebu, the municipality conducted public-participation meetings in all 12 wards to make sure that everyone had the opportunity to participate in the running of the municipality before the start of the new financial year in July. “We don’t want a situation where our community members and stakeholders will be surprised when we implement projects and other municipal services in their areas. Community members and stakeholders have the obligation to hold the municipality accountable for anything that takes place in their areas. An inclusive government allows its constituency to have a constructive say in the running of their government.” Dzebu said that the municipality was aware that some people could not attend the public participation for various reasons. “That is why we will allow inputs to be brought to our offices. We want to make sure that everything that we implement has the blessing from our community members and stakeholders.” He said the recent public participation was not the first step to engage communities. “These meetings were just a confirmation of the issues and projects that community members submitted and agreed upon during their wards meetings. The municipality had to compile a comprehensive plan for all 12 wards and allocate the budget as per the needs of the citizens and the financial resources of the municipality. After all the processes, the compiled documentation will be submitted to Council for approval. After the approval by Council, the document will be regarded as final and it will be implemented during the new financial year.” Dzebu encouraged community members and stakeholders to take part in the running of the municipality. “It is everyone’s responsibility to make sure that the government is running smoothly by making input in the affairs of the government.”  A community member raises a point during the Musina Municipality's Integrated Development Plan (IDP) and budget public participation at Masisi community hall.  Email: