News - Date: 30 May 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1270 The sudden passing away of Cllr Vhathu Mulaudzi (53) of Mandala has left the community in a state of shock. He was a very popular and well-respected member of the Thulamela Local Council. He died after a short illness at Siloam Hospital on Sunday. The news has been met with sadness by fellow councillors, Thulamela municipal staff members and ordinary people across the boundaries of the council. As a proportional representative (PR) councillor for the Democratic Alliance (DA), Mulaudzi was well respected for being outspoken and he did not fear standing up and speaking on behalf of the people he represented. Thulamela Mayor, Cllr Mushoni Tshifhango, said he was saddened by the news of Mulaudzi’s death. “It's a sad loss to the council and a sad loss to the family. All our sympathy goes to his family and friends.” He described the death of Mulaudzi as a terrible blow to the community of Vhembe. “His death has taken a real comrade, confidante and inspirational leader from both young and old people in our community,” he said. He added that at the municipality would always remember Mulaudzi for his contribution to the development of the community. The chairperson of the DA in the province, Mr Geoffrey Tshibvumo, said that the DA had learnt with great sadness of the passing of Cllr Mulaudzi. He said that Mulaudzi had executed his responsibilities with great professionalism and passion. “He was a true servant of the people who will be remembered for his commitment to building a better South Africa.” The family spokesperson, Mr Strike Mulaudzi, said that they were consoled by the massive support from family, friends and community members.

Mulaudzi is survived by his wife and three children. He will be buried on Saturday at Mandala. The service will start at 06:00.  The late Cllr Vhathu Mulaudzi.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za