News - Date: 19 May 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 136 A moment of great joy, happiness and elation prevailed at the grounds of Rivoni School for the Blind at Rivoni village, near Elim, on Monday. This came after the South African Custodial Management, operating as Kutama Sinthumule Correctional Centre in Louis Trichardt, donated boxes of school uniforms to the school for learners with special needs. Some 100 pairs of trousers, 122 jerseys, 21 blazers, 57 long-sleeved shirts, 36 ties and 15 bowties were handed to the school's representatives. The donation is estimated to have a value of R10 000. South African Custodial Management's managing director, Mr Lazarus Bahula, said that the company wanted to add value to the lives of the learners at the school. He added that it was always the company's pleasure to bring aid to places where they knew that it was seriously needed and that it would be appreciated. “We want to believe that the gift of a school uniform means a lot to each learner,” he said. “We were happy to assist the children and put a smile on their faces before the winter's adverse weather sets in, so that they can be and feel like other children.” He stated that the donation was part of the company's social-responsibility programme as they had always assisted many organisations that take care of the elderly, orphans and people living with disabilities. “We wanted the learners to have a joyful experience when going to school,” he said. Some organisations that had previously benefited from SACM include Takalani Children's Home (food and standby generator), Tshikwarani Primary School (uniforms), Waterval Pre-school (borehole and water station), Vutlhari Stimulation and Disability Centre (borehole and water station), Songozwi Victim Empowerment Programme (building renovation and furniture) and Vhembe District Municipality (water-level indicator). Rivoni School for the Blind's principal, Ms Constance Mabasa, welcomed the donation and said that it had come at the stirring of a chilly winter season. “We heartily appreciate the uniforms donated by SACM,” she said. “The uniforms will yield good results. We will put the clothes to good use.”  In the photograph are (from left to right) Mr Eric Netsianda, Thabiso Zitha (pupil), Kamogelo Maubane (pupil), Maria Samusa (pupil), Ms Constance Mabasa, and Mr Samuel Ramanala.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com