News - Date: 31 May 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1304 The Venda culture took centre stage last Saturday when president Cyril Ramaphosa was inaugurated, but not everyone agrees that performing the sacred tshikona dance was appropriate. Some believe that the ceremony disrespected the Vhavenda customs and traditions. Experts on the culture, however, disagree. Earlier this week, an anonymous message circulated on social media and WhatsApp groups. The writer(s) suggested that protocol had not been followed and that the tshikona dance should only be performed under instruction of a senior traditional leader “who in most cases would be the Vhavenda King, or anybody delegated with such authority by the senior Vhavenda Traditional House (in this case the Mphephu Ramabulana house).” The writer pointed out that senior traditional leaders such as Tony Mphephu Ramabulana were present at the inauguration but seemingly had not authorized the dance or even participated in the dance. “Instead, the president took to the grounds with headman Livhuwani Matsila and his esteemed friend, Muvhango actor Gabriel Temudzani, who acts as the Vhavenda King from a fictitious village called Thathe,” the message reads. The fact that the actor was wearing a leopard skin also seemed to upset the writer. “In the Vhavenda customs the leopard hide is worn only when the king or chief is being sworn into [sic] the throne. From there it remains on his chair, called khulunoni for the rest of his life. It is then passed on to the one who takes over after him at the inauguration ceremony.” Some animosity regarding the presence of the traditional leader, Livhuwani Matsila, also shines through. The anonymous letter writer accuses him of trying to hi-jack the occasion “because he wanted to be seen as the Vhavenda king in their absence”. Chief Matsila has been a pivotal figure in promoting cultural dances in the past. His Radzambo Cultural Foundation, in partnership with Phalaphala FM, has been organizing cultural dance competitions for a number of years. He was personally involved in all the arrangements the past weekend to transport the dance groups to Pretoria and get them ready for Saturday’s performance. Dr Gladys Nethengwe, a well-known Venda culture expert, tried to provide some clarity on the matter earlier this week. According to her, nothing unbecoming and disrespectful could be said about the traditional programme at the inauguration. “I believe this has to do with differences among traditional leaders. We were supposed to be proud as a Vhavenda nation that we were able to showcase our culture in giving honour to our president. The tshikona dance is done by young men and the elders who partake are there to give guidance,” she said. Nethengwe explained that the dance has been made part of the school curriculum by the Mphephu Royal House, which means it can be performed everywhere with no one prohibited from participating. She further said the dance had been commercialised as many in rural communities were not employed and therefore it became a source of income. “We are worried as a community that some of our cultural traditions such as the domba are fast diminishing, as traditional leaders are no longer hosting them,” she said. According to her, there is nothing wrong with the president’s dancing with people such as Chief Livhuwani Matsila or any other person. No-one stopped any of the other senior traditional leaders from taking part and dancing with the president. “Zuma had his trademark Umshini Wam, Thabo Mbeki used to do the mukhukhu dance with Solly Moholo, Mandela had his own Madiba dance and I can’t see any reason why Ramaphosa did wrong by dancing with Matsila. In his case it was befitting that they were both royals enjoying the festivities as expected and this should be celebrated by all,” she said. Chief Matsila was upbeat and unapologetic when contacted for comment. He hailed the performance as an excellent exhibition of the Venda culture and tradition for which the Venda nation will always be remembered. “It is utterly disgusting that some faceless chiefs resorted to anonymous social media statements in order to discredit our colourful performance during the inauguration. Anybody who has concerns is always at liberty to raise pertinent issues with the Radzambo Cultural Foundation in a constructive manner, without bullying anybody. Those behind these shameful sentiments are rumour mongers and traditional leaders who have long abandoned their culture and tradition in pursuit of fame and self-pride at all cost,” he said. The tshikona dancers in action during Saturday's presidential inauguration at Loftus Stadium. (Photo: Netwerk24 / Felix Dlangamandla)  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: