News - Date: 17 May 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 301 About 170 students at Ramazwi Security Services and Training Agency, led Mr Victor Ramambila, were recently rewarded when they received their hard-earned qualifications. The qualifications were formally handed to them during a ceremony held recently at Ferdie Beyers Hall in Louis Trichardt. During the same event, the company's website was launched. Ramambila also launched the Mphiwa Ndivhuho Ramambila Foundation, named after his children, and it will investigate the welfare and needs of disadvantaged learners. He handed over full uniforms to several needy learners identified from seven different local schools. The ceremony was attended by Makhado Mayor Samuel Munyai, well-known author, businesswoman and motivational speaker Humbelani Netshandama, who gave the keynote address, and parents of the students. The year-long programme saw the students acquiring skills that will help them in the challenging job market. A 100 of the students completed the General Security Practice Level 3, while 70 completed General Security Practice Skills Programme 1 and 2 and Public Administration Level 5. Netshandama called on the students not to wait for employment but to stand up and do something that could improve their lives even before going out seeking employment. "The skills that you have acquired are just a foundation. If you can stand up the whole night guarding property, what can stop you from starting a business that will supplement your income,” she said. Mr Victor Ramambila said they had trained many people over the years who were now making a meaningful contribution to the economy of the country. "Our aim is to bring change in the lives of people and we are proud to be making this humble contribution.” He urged all the successful candidates to study further for the betterment of their lives.  Ecstatic students who received their qualifications during the ceremony held in Louis Trichardt. Mr Victor Ramambila congratulates one of the successful students, Ms Nancy Denga, during the ceremony held in Louis Trichardt.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: