News - Date: 26 May 2019 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 230 The ANC deputy chairperson in Vhembe, Mr Dowelani Nenguda, is tipped to ascend to the hot seat as the executive mayor of Vhembe to replace the incumbent, Cllr Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya, who is heading for Limpopo Legislature. Lerule-Ramakhanya, who succeeded Cllr Florence Radzilani late last year, is expected to join the Limpopo Legislature next week. She is expected in political circles to become an MEC under Premier Stanley Chupu Mathabatha. According to a reliable source from within the party, Nenguda, a younger brother of late former MK cadre Carlton Nenguda, received the most support when the successor to Lerule-Ramakhanya was discussed during the party’s regional executive committee meeting held on Monday morning. “The meeting to discuss the candidate to succeed the current executive mayor started on Sunday morning (19 May). Unfortunately, the debate was very hot, to the extent that it dragged on until late in the night. The members were divided on different candidates. Some were pushing for Nenguda, while some were pushing for Cllr Rudzani Ludere,” the source said. “Later on, the name of Cllr Humbulani Mulovhedzi, who is Speaker of the  Thulamela Local Municipality was also added. Unfortunately, some members of the group that was opposing the candidacy of Nenguda did not pitch up on Monday when they re-convened. His name was agreed on and it was going to be submitted to the provincial executive committee for final approval,” said the source. Nenguda has been deputy chairperson of ANC in Vhembe since the last term, with Mr Tshitereke Matibe, the former executive mayor of the same municipality, as chairperson. Nenguda is currently working for the South African Social Security Services in Vhembe. Matibe, who is working for the Road Agency Limpopo, was earmarked for the Limpopo Legislature. This, however, seems to be impossible as the party did not garner enough votes in the provinces because of the unexpected growth of the FF+ and EFF. Meanwhile, another source also alleged that the former municipal manager for Thulamela, Mr Makonde Mathivha, would join Vhembe District Municipality, occupying the same position. The party is believed to want to stabilize the municipality through this veteran administrator, who is respected for his wealth of experience.  Mr Dowelani Nenguda - tipped to ascend to the hot seat as the executive mayor of Vhembe. Outgoing executive mayor Cllr Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya.  Email: