News - Date: 27 October 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 274 “Take pride in your heritage and culture through speaking your language, holding onto your norms and traditions in all humility, love and respect, as those are the fundamental characteristics that hold together a people.” Prof Samuel Risenga, director at the University of Limpopo's School of Medicine, addressed hundreds of people during the Makhubele Day that was held at the community stadium at Mdavula village in the Collins Chabane area last month. “When we were growing up, there were fewer diseases, because our forebearers had left us with a healthy eating lifestyle, where we ate lots of organic foods that we planted in our own homes and fields,” he said. “It is another reason why I am urging people to eat lots of veggies, fruits, beans and nuts. The kind of veggies you pick from your garden are medicinal and you may not know that.” He reminded parents and guardians to ensure that their children engage in some form of exercise and not just sit in front the TV watching movies or programmes all day long. “It's not healthy; they must also exercise,” he said. The vision and main aim of the event was to unite all members of the Makhubele clan through cultural and heritage celebrations. The clan leadership encouraged members to lead a philanthropic lifestyle. The day was characterised by traditional dances, singing, and speeches by cultural and academic experts. Some Makhubele members had even come all the way from Mozambique and Zimbabwe, with the proposal that the next event should be held in Mozambique. Meanwhile, the clan presented R5 000 cheques to five schools within the Collins Chabane municipal area, requesting that the money be awarded to the best Grade 12 performers. “We appreciate the kind of good work that the Makhubele clan are doing not only in our area but throughout South Africa,” said the mayor of the Collins Chabane Municipality, Mr Moses Maluleke. The clan’s spokesperson, Mr Mlungisi Mgabani, said that the clan was also working hard to fight against xenophobia, and that was another reason why they were extending the event to Mozambique. “We condemn xenophobia and all forms of domestic violence,” he said.  The Rotterdam branch of the Makhubele Mgwena clan enters the event. In the picture are (from left to right) Hosi Thomas Duvula, Hosi N'waxinyamani, Cllr Moses Maluleke, and Hosi GE Makhubele.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com