News - Date: 13 October 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 306 Mr Tshililo Rambau, a teacher at Muungadi Primary School at Zamenkomste, received the provincial Excellence Natural Science and Technology teaching award during a ceremony at The Ranch Hotel near Polokwane a fortnight ago. He received a certificate, a trophy, a laptop, and a DVD and data projector. Rambau started teaching in 2007. He told Limpopo Mirror that the secret behind his success was hard work, teamwork, networking and proper time management. "I never procrastinate, and I make friends with people whom I know I will learn from. I also go to other schools to learn how they work, so that I can also use the knowledge to benefit my pupils." He added that he made sure that he became accessible to the pupils. He added that he was not motivated by greed, as he did not get incentives for achieving outstanding results. “I do not get paid extra for my achievements, but I stay at school after the normal schooling hours for the sake of our pupils,” he said. He said teaching was a calling to him and the love of his learners made him go the extra mile in assisting all of them to pass. “I am urging other teachers to work very hard to ensure that our learners are getting the necessary education they deserve,” he said. Rambau thanked the department for initiating the competition and his principal, SGB and his colleagues for being supportive. He said that he would not disappoint Limpopo when he was going to the national award ceremony later this month.  Photographed are, standing from left to right, Ms Lydia Rambulana, Mr Tshililo Rambau (winner) and Mesdames Matevhu Mamafha and Elisabeth Maremba.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za