News - Date: 26 October 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 271 Residents of Tshiozwi’s “new stands” are relieved that they now have access to water every day, all year round, without interruption. This comes after the directors of the Tshiozwi Annual Show, Musanda Vho-Makhado “Vhathundimapfura” Sinthumule and Mutanuni Vho-Sindiswa Mabuya-Sinthumule, had drilled a borehole and set up a communal water station for the people. The Tshiozwi annual show débuted in August this year, where it provided entertainment and other activities for the children and attracted hundreds of fun lovers in the Sinthumule/Kutama area and neighbouring villages. “When they staged the show, the directors’ after-show plan was to provide a water station for the sections of Tshiozwi village,” said the show coordinator, Mutanuni Vho-Sindiswa Mabuya-Sinthumule. “At the end of the show, we arranged for the drilling machine to drill a borehole, and we then provided a water station for residents.” She stated that the water was open to all residents and that the show directors did not want to interfere much with the operational arrangements. “We encouraged the residents to hold a meeting where they would discuss how each family would contribute towards the electricity vouchers to pump water each month, and they were able to reach an agreement,” she said. The residents agreed to contribute R10 per household each month and the water station is open between 05:00-12:00 and 15:00-19:00 to allow refilling of the water tank. One of the residents, Ms Elisa Ramaliya, expressed her relief as she could now fetch water right on her street. “I am so excited and relieved that I can now open the tap and fill my bottles right here near my home at no cost at all,” she said. “This is unlike in the previous days, months and years when I had to either buy water from those who had a borehole or else push my wheelbarrow to faraway places to access water.” Meanwhile, the Tshiozwi Annual Show promises a much bigger event next year, which will benefit the local communities.  Mr Makhado Sinthumule (left) opens the water station that the Tshiozwi Annual Show directors have provided to the residents. Also in the picture are Khavhatondwi Makushu and Ms Avhurengwi Mudau.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com