News - Date: 07 October 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 1818 An internationally acclaimed motivational speaker has embarked on a project to assist people to find their purpose in life, so that they might live a fruitful life. A qualified meteorologist, scientist, businessman and tax expert, Tshililo Thomas Radzilani of Tshikovhi, recently addressed more than 150 people and encouraged them to use passion to channel their energy into working along the purpose of their lives instead of living without a purpose. The event was held at Porche Villa Hotel and Conference Centre in Thohoyandou. “I always aim to challenge the people in their comfort zones and show them why they should not be copycats,” he said. “I encourage the ones who are already on the right track.” His project is known as Mind2Work. Through his talk, he helps to restore confidence, relationships, career growth and financial freedom. The tools he shares are intended to help one to establish the highest values in life and how to start pursuing such. “I want people to find out who they are and what they are capable to do and how they should start doing what they love to do in order to add value to humanity,” he said. The attendees were urged to revisit their new year's resolutions or find what suits them, based on their make-up. The programme director, Dr Caiphas Dagada, said that it was unbelievable that a young boy from Phiphidi village had discovered the talent that would help the nation follow their dreams. “If the country could listen to Radzilani, the world will be a better place,” he said.  Tshililo Thomas Radzilani of the Tshikovhi clan (in black suit) was photographed shortly after the workshop with his team members and some of the attendees.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com