News - Date: 13 October 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 224 “Dreaming big is my winning formula and I have been applying it in my life for some years now - and the results are always satisfying.” Those were the words of the 24-year-old author from Dzingahe village, Tshauambea “Tshau” Ramukumba, who had just achieved another milestone by winning the title of SA Inspirational Woman of the Year 2019 during the Miss Phenomenal Woman of the Year 2020 Awards. The event was held at the Apollo Hotel in Randburg in Gauteng on Saturday. “Leaving the universe without a trace or mark of motivation, inspiration and achievement has never been part of my plan, even from a younger age,” she said. “I am honestly living my dreams, and this has become apparent when I won this very award which I am now celebrating.” She stated that it had been a difficult journey that she had to travel, and that she had to remain calm and confident even though winds of discouragement had blown along the way. “I was very scared, but some of my fellow contestants encouraged me and told me the title was mine as my work so deserved,” she said. She thanked Adivhaho Mbedzi, Onndwela Makhale and Karabelo Pulela for believing in her. She further said that she appreciated the support she received from her mother, Ms Grace Ramukumba, and her sister, Tshinanne Ramukumba. “I extend special thanks to all the people who voted for me,” she said. “I won and am overwhelmed with joy. It feels like a dream!” She said that the fact that she had won was more than just carrying a title, but that she had to work towards changing the lives of other women for the better. “My winning will empower them even more,” she said. “When they see a woman like me who comes from Dzingahe making it in the world, they will also see that everything is possible if they put in more effort and make a reasonable plan.” Tshau is also a published author, after the release of her debut book, Shades of Shock. She is available on Facebook as 'Author Tshauambea Princess Ramukumba'.  Tshauambea “Tshau” Ramukumba, who has just scored another milestone. Photo supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com