News - Date: 11 October 2019 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 715 For almost seven years, the rural village of Thongwe near Dzimauli in Ha-Rammbuda was without a traditional leader, but on Saturday, Chief Ndondeni Ramuvhundu was installed as the new leader. The new chief, a professional engineer, said he was aware that the water shortage remained a serious problem. “We will soon drill a communal borehole and connect the water pipes that will supply water to the taps to curb the problem. We also have some unused infrastructure,” he added. He was speaking on Saturday at the Thongwe Sports Grounds, shortly after being installed as new traditional leader. The executive mayor of Vhembe District, Cllr Dowelani Nenguda, said they extended the good working relationship with the traditional leaders, so that they could fast-track the delivery of services to the communities. “We understand that water shortages remain a serious problem in rural villages such as Thongwe and others and when we join hands with traditional leaders, life will change for the better for our communities. We will also give more support to subsistence farmers as the Ha-Rammbuda community is known for its active participation in farming,” said Nenguda. Speaking during the installation ceremony, Thovhele Ratshibvumo II Rammbuda urged the new chief to dedicate himself to serving his community without taking sides. During the ceremony, Vusani Ramuvhundu was named khadzi, while Lavhelesani was named ndumi. Chief Ndondeni Ramuvhundu succeeds his father, Chief Nthetsheleseni Ramuvhundu, who passed away in 2013. Representing the traditional leaders of Ha-Rambuda, Chief   Nndavheleseni Netshitandani welcomed the new leader to the Ha-Rammbuda Tribal Council and urged him to attend the imbizo at the thovheles’ kraal in Dzimauli village regularly.  The new traditional leader of Thongwe village, Chief Nndondeni Ramuvhundu. The executive mayor of Vhembe, Cllr Dowelani Nenguda (left), Cllr Sarah Rammbuda, Chief Nndondeni Ramuvhundu and Thovhele Ratshibvumo II Rammnuda, photographed after the installation ceremony.  Email: