News - Date: 14 October 2019 Written by: Anton van Zyl / Viewed: 956 Women of Destiny South Africa (WODSA) is celebrating its 10th anniversary by honouring 10 women from Limpopo on 26 October at Kone Village Boutique Lodge in Ramahantsha village, Limpopo, under the theme Plant a Seed. Women to be honoured are Dr Dephney Mathebula (the first South African woman to obtain a PhD in Mathematics), Beka Ntsanwisi (the founder of the elderly football club, Vakhegula-Vakhegula), veteran singer Dr Matodzi Irene Mawela (best known for her 80s hits mme anga khotsi anga and vhana vhashu), Priscillah Mabelane (CEO of BP Southern Africa), TUMELO Queen Seakamela (a qualified social worker, but she has never practiced her profession in any institution; instead, she chose to uplift her community of Marobjane in Senwabarwana with social matters), Mary Mohloding (a torchbearer for her community and also advisor to Kgoshi Seakamela wa Bobedi),  Mankoko Mokhari (Mankoko Baby of Thobela FM’s breakfast show Ditla le meso), Noria Mabasa (an internationally acclaimed sculptor and potter), Latani Violet Liremi (radio presenter and pastor who is a spiritual leader, caring mother, life coach and also a community leader), Dr Khensani Selina Maluleke (founder of Solomon’s Porch Worship Tabernacle Ministries). Women of Destiny south Africa was founded by Naledi Senye, who was born at Rusfontein village at Kuruman in the Northern Cape, and she is well known for honouring phenomenal women. Naledi said her selection criteria were based on personal development and community building. “I also looked at some unsung heroines who gave birth to some political leaders, celebrities, engineers and other men and women who are contributing on a positive note in Mzansi,” said Naledi. WODSA will be hosting a gala dinner outside Gauteng for the first time. Naledi said her events were created as a platform to appreciate women. “This is where we are spearheading women empowerment initiatives and dedicate each year to a specific cause,” said Naledi. Naledi said her organisation was established in 2008 with the aim of being an ambassador for women. She said that they also encouraged and empowered women to break the shackles of domestic violence by boosting their self-esteem and confidence. A lot of entertainment and surprise performances from some well-known comedians and radio presenters will be provided on the day. For any enquiries, call Naledi on 082 499 6992 or email her on info@womenofdestinysa.org or visit www.womenofdestinysa.org.  Ms Naledi Senye, founder of WODSA.  Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror since 1990. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.  Email: anton@zoutnet.co.za