News - Date: 04 October 2019 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 2478 Tshivenda pop sensation Ndivhudzannyi Ralivhona, better known as Makhadzi, was the big winner during the sixth annual Tshivenda Music Awards (TSHIMA). The awards, the brainchild of young businessman Mr Augustine Nethononda, were attended by the mayors of Vhembe and Thulamela as well as many artists and community members. The function was held at the Thohoyandou Town Hall on Saturday evening. Makhadzi, who won three awards in the same competition last year, was nominated in four categories. The artist, known for songs such as Haka Matorokisi and Tshikwama, took home the awards for Song of the Year and Artist of the Year. The 23-year-old Makhadzi from Ha-Mashamba outside Louis Trichardt has worked with the country's best - the likes of DJ Tira, Sho Madjozi, King Monada and Master KG. Close on her heels came gospel sensation Takie Ndou, who also won two awards. Veteran musician Elvis Mandiza, who nurtured the career of the late musical legend Dan Tshanda, among others, was honoured with a Lifetime Achievement award. The late guitarist Mr Daniel Luambo was honoured posthumously while the former Deputy Minister of Environmental Affairs, Ms Rejoice Mabudafhasi, was honoured for her contribution to the development of the arts. Speaking during the event, Vhembe Executive Mayor Dowelani Nenguda urged all artists to compose music that has a message to educate the nation. He further implored artists to go back to their roots and include traditional instruments in their music. The vision holder and father of the awards, Mr Augustine Nethononda, was upbeat about how things went. “Without a doubt the TSHIMA brand has now become a flagship on the local calendar of events, by far the highlight since its inception in 2012. We are about providing a platform that rewards and recognises local talent,” Nethononda said. The winners in the different categories are: Best Tshivenda Newcomer - Ronnie L Best Tshivenda Reggae Album of the Year – Just Ice Best Tshivenda Afro Soul – Ramzeey Best Tshivenda Traditional Album - Vhavenda Cultural Group Best Tshivenda Indigenous Album - Eric Mathivha Best Tshivenda Hip Hop Album – Prifix King/Queen of Venrap 2019 – Dovey Best Tshivenda Tshingondo Album - Thifhelimbilu and Gazlam Rhumba Boys Best Tshivenda Indigenous Traditional Gospel - Ntshenge N Best Tshivenda Gospel Album - Takie Ndou Best Tshivenda Female Artist of the Year - Ndivhaleni Musetha Best Tshivenda Male Artist of the Year - Takie Ndou Best Tshivenda Dance Album - Black Culture Best Tshivenda Song of the Year – Makhadzi Best Tshivenda Artist of the Year - Makhadzi  Lady of the moment: Makhadzi won two awards and an R80 000 cheque. Picture: Ndivhuwo Musetha. Ndivhaleni Musetha won the category of Best Female Album of the Year. Picture: Ndivhuwo Musetha. Takie Ndou (centre) won two awards. Picture: Ndivhuwo Musetha. Vhembe Executive Mayor Dowelani Nenguda, Nthatheni Elvis Mandiza Muda (who was presented with a Lifetime Achievement award) and Thulamela Mayor Avhashoni Tshifhango.  Picture: Ndivhuwo Musetha.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: