News - Date: 21 October 2019 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 1842 Two schools in the Elim area brought home literature-based prizes they had won during the Funda Mzantsi Championship, which was recently held at George in the Western Cape Province. The Mpheni-based Ozias Davhana Secondary School won several awards across the competition's categories. The school's Matsidiso Ndou scooped up first place in reading, Rudzani Serunwa also got first place in book review, while Muofhe Ramolai received a second prize in reading. “We were also announced as the second-place overall winners as the Tshivenda team achievers,” said the school’s book club coordinator, Mr Mlungisi Mgabini. “We had worked so hard in preparation for the competition, and we are now pleased with the results and the awards we had managed to bring home.” Elim High School's coordinator, Mr Emmanuel Nkanyani, said that they had won one prize in the Xitsonga reading category, where they had scored a first position in reading. “This serves as a learning curve for us, and we will be focusing on developing our reading and book-review skills, so that we do excel next year,” he said. The Funda Mzantsi Championship is an initiative of the National Library of South Africa (NLSA) in collaboration with the Department of Correctional Services (DCS) and George Municipality. It was established in 2010 for the purpose of cultivating a culture of reading in the country through the assessment of book clubs' comprehension abilities in areas such as reading, book review, debate, and a spelling bee.  Ozias Davhana Secondary School won several awards across the competition's categories.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com