News - Date: 21 October 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 196 The MEC for Transport and Community Safety, Mr Dickson Masemola, said a need existed to educate people on matters relating to crime and how to combat it. Speaking during the crime-prevention seminar at the University of Venda a fortnight ago, Masemola said that the seminar aimed to assist the provincial government in the review of the provincial crime-prevention strategy and to further determine possible and effective measures in the prevention of crime. “We need to have sessions like this in order to build a crime-free country, not only at institutions of higher learning but also within communities where we come from.” He said that the department was in the process of reviewing the Limpopo Provincial Crime-Prevention Strategy and they needed input from various stakeholders. “Research findings from studies conducted by academics regarding causes of crime and recommendations of how to tackle this challenge will also assist us to reduce crime in this province. Students who are frequently being attacked by criminals also need to be given special attention because they can assist in the crime-prevention strategy." He advised community members, traditional leaders, church leaders and all government departments to work with the members of the SAPS in making sure that peace was being restored in the province. "Crime in Limpopo is decreasing, but that should not be celebrated. We need to make sure that there is no crime at all.” The deputy-dean of the School of Law, Dr Kholofelo Mothibi, said that a need for a rural community safety plan existed. "Before community members can report crime at police stations, they need to educate each other on how to prevent or deal with criminal activities within communities. Traditional leaders and religious leaders need to restore order within their respective communities." Mr Ndivhuwo Munyai, a criminology student, said that CCTV cameras should be installed at areas where crime was rife, and they should be monitored daily. "Lack of jobs will also contribute to the increase in crime rate. There should be centres for children without parents because most of them are out on the streets and are hungry, hence they commit crimes." Adv Mafanywa Mangammbi said crime prevention should be the first subject to be taught at primary level. "Government, communities, church and traditional leaders should start educating people about crime. There is no money that will be enough to combat crime. The only way to combat crime is go back to communities and educate them about crime. Even an increase of police officers cannot combat crime, or even the death penalty."  MEC Dickson Masemola (centre), members of  the SAPS, Univen staff members and religious leaders pose for a photo.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: