News - Date: 12 October 2019 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 363 As part of the cyber-safety awareness campaign, the Deputy Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies, Pinky Kekana, visited Tshikwarani Primary School at Madombidzha last Friday to educate learners and educators to be more vigilant about practicing safe online habits. Kekana said the fact that cybercrime continued to evolve with new threats surfacing every year was well documented. "Youths and women are the most vulnerable when it comes to cybercrimes. Cyber criminals commit crimes by targeting sensitive data in computers, mobile devices or networks. Cybercrimes include security breaches, identity theft, cyber-stalking, harassment, bullying, and child sexual exploitation." Kekana said that her department had developed awareness programmes to educate all South Africans about the dangers presented by cyberspace. "While making the communities aware of the threats, we should not deter them from interacting online or conducting business. The basic precautions to cybersecurity include not disclosing personal information such as passwords for computers or PINs for bank cards. All online transactions should be done from trusted computers or terminals." She also donated 12 laptops and three television sets to the school. "We donated the TV sets, so that you can watch educational programmes. We don't want you to start using computers only at university and you should know how to use computers from a primary level. We will also give you a cyber lab. I will come again in January to give you Wi-Fi. You must also learn coding and prepare yourselves for the Fourth Industrial Revolution," she said. The principal of Tshikwarani Primary School, Ms Mukondeleli Kudzingana, said that they were grateful for the kind gesture and indicated that the laptops would assist in providing tremendous exposure for learners in their studies.  Photographed during the event are, from left to right, Deputy Minister Pinky Kekana, Mr Abel Machaba, Ms Ntakadzeni Lefuwa and Ms Mukondeleli Kudzingana.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: