News - Date: 18 October 2019 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 745 With the opening of the state-of-the-art Thavhani Mall in Thohoyandou a few years ago, the number of commuters who regularly go there for shopping has increased tremendously. They experienced many difficulties, however, in getting transport to and from the mall. Things changed for the better last Friday, when the modern R6 million Thavhani Mall Bus Rank was officially opened. The rank is situated on the lower level parking, opposite the Thohoyandou Stadium. Ms Maria Mulaudzi, chairperson of the Vhembe Bus Operators, said they were
thankful for the opening of the new bus rank, which would make transportation easier for them and the commuters. According to her, commuters will now be able to travel to and from the Thavhani Mall more easily and safely. She added, however, that with the increase in crime around the mall, they would ask the police to construct a satellite police station close by, so that policemen could patrol the rank regularly. Cllr Tshimangadzo Malada of Thulamela congratulated the management of Thavhani Mall on taking the lead in making the life of commuters easier. Malada said the rank was coming at a time when Thulamela Municipality was planning to be a city by 2030 and expressed the hope that the rank and the mall would form part of such efforts and better opportunities. The director of Thavhani Mall, Thovhele Nkhaneni Ramovha, said that the new bus rank was constructed after they had received many complaints from commuters that they needed buses to transport them to and from the mall regularly. He urged commuters to use the rank with respect, so that they would be prompted to bring more extensions to the mall, such as cinemas and a gymnasium. One of the commuters who attended the official opening of Thavhani Mall
Bus Rank, Ms Christina Netselo, was very happy with the new rank. She said that they had been waiting for the rank for a long time.  The director of Thavhani Mall, Thovhele Nkhaneni Ramovha (second from left) and Cllr Tshimangadzo Malada of Thulamela Mmunicipality help each other to cut the ribbon, while Mr Joseph Ramathavha (left) and Ms Maria Mulaudzi right look on.  Email: