News - Date: 13 October 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 593 The Tshathongwe Communal Property Association (CPA) in the Makhado area aims to transform a portion of land restored to them through the restitution programme and turn it into a tourism and farming attraction. Representatives from the Department of Tourism, accompanied by Chief Livhuwani Matsila, visited the Tshathongwe CPA last month. The CPA aims to establish a camping site, guest house and recreational facilities on the portion of land, as well as a cattle and vegetable farm. If successful, the initiative will employ about 100 people from the community in its first phase. To reach their dream, the Tshathongwe CPA requested assistance from Chief Matsila, who has previously created more than 500 jobs in his area. According to Mr Willy Hadzhi, chairperson of the Tshathongwe CPA, they believe that, through this initiative, many will gain part-time and full-time employment as the project kicks off. Hadzhi added that poverty and unemployment were very high within the Nthabalala area, hence their asking Matsila for assistance. "As traditional leaders we are tasked with looking after our subjects and we can achieve this if we assist each other. For me, rural development has become a passion that I will preach wherever I go. I do not expect any reward for this as I do it on a voluntary basis. The best payment that will make me happy is that many of the unemployed get employed at the project. I am available to help," Chief Matsila told Limpopo Mirror.  Members of the Tshathongwe CPA, Chief Livuwani Matsila (middle back) and representatives from the Department of Tourism, photographed during a visit to the area.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za