News - Date: 28 October 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 684 The chairperson of the Riyahana Foundation Against Violence on Women and Children, Ms Avheani Lukoto, has urged communities not to keep quiet but to speak out against all forms of abuse in order to ensure that the killing of women and children stopped. Lukoto was speaking during a march aimed at stopping the violent abuse of women and children that took place a fortnight ago at Shayandima. Lukoto said women and children had suffered enough, with some maimed and others scarred for life by the people they regarded as their protectors. “We are here today, displaying that real men care for their families and that is the reason we are kicking abuse in full view of our traditional leaders and we will continue advocating this until all our women and children feel they are safe,” she said. According to her, violence against children had reached an alarming state, adding that people should learn to respect life. Lukoto said her organisation would work in partnership with different structures, civil organisations, community members and government bodies to fight the scourge of violence against woman and children in the area. “If we can join hands and work together in partnerships, we can win the war against women and child abuse,” she said. According to her, most women were failing today and were entangled in the web of poverty and abuse because they were not independent and could not provide for themselves and their families. “God did not bring you into this world to be beggars but to be independent people with economic freedom that will exempt you from abuse and exploitation. This can only be achieved if women are united,” said Lukoto. Pastor Godfrey Ndou said women would continue to be the subject of ridicule and be exposed to poverty and abuse if they did not change their mindset. “God brought you here for a purpose,” he said. Ndou said women should not rely on others to lead their lives but should be responsible for their own destiny.  Residents march, displaying placards that condemn the abuse of women and children. Some of the residents who marched to highlight the problem of women and child abuse.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za