News - Date: 31 October 2019 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1935 The community of Limpopo is mourning the sudden death of bishop Marubini Nevondwe (79) of the Agreement Apostolic Christian Church. He passed away at the Elim hospital last Wednesday morning after a long illness. The family spokesperson, Ms Merium Nevondwe, said that the bishop had been a very solemn, restrained and dignified person. According to her he would always be remembered for his good work by his family, the church members and the community in which he had served for so many years. According to her, Nevondwe had left his mark through his leadership skills. “He was seen as a light to the family and the nation at large. We are truly devastated, as we have lost a pillar of the family. Everyone looked up to him for advice,” she said. The spokesperson for the Agreement Apostolic Christian Church, Mr Nkhetheni Mashau, was at a loss for words. “This is a great loss not only for the church and the family, but for the whole community. To lose such an iconic leader at this time is painful. We are just praying that God gives us all comfort in this time of grief,” he said. Mashau said that Nevondwe had done many things for his community. He helped poor people and he assisted many communities and learners at different schools. “We want the children of Nevondwe and pastors who served under him to continue helping the church to grow, as we don’t want the church to cease to operate because the founder is no more. He left us while we were still expecting many more things from him, as he was devoted to giving,” said Mashau. Nevondwe will be buried on Saturday at the Ha-Mulima Pfananani church yard, starting at 06:00.  The late bishop Marubini Nevondwe.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za